  TRANSCRIBER’S NOTE

  Italic text is denoted by _underscores_.

  Bold text is denoted by =equal signs=.

  Some minor changes to the text are noted at the end of the book.




                          THE BUTTERFLY GUIDE




                          THE BUTTERFLY GUIDE

          A POCKET MANUAL FOR THE READY IDENTIFICATION OF THE
         COMMONER SPECIES FOUND IN THE UNITED STATES AND CANADA

                                   BY

                          W. J. HOLLAND, LL.D.

                    Director of the Carnegie Museum
         Author of “The Butterfly Book,” “The Moth Book,” etc.

                       _With 295 Colored Figures_
                _Representing 255 Species and Varieties_

                       Garden City      New York
                       DOUBLEDAY, PAGE & COMPANY
                                  1915




                         _Copyright, 1915, by_
                       DOUBLEDAY, PAGE & COMPANY

                _All rights reserved, including that of
                  translation into foreign languages,
                      including the Scandinavian_




                                 To the
                         BOY SCOUTS OF AMERICA
                               I dedicate
                               this Book
                                     _The Author_




                                PREFACE


Recent advances in the arts make it possible to illustrate books at
much less cost than formerly. An important invention is the process
of printing in three colors from half-tone plates. The author of this
manual was one of the first to use this process in illustrating a work
upon the lepidoptera. When “The Butterfly Book” appeared he received
letters from many scientific friends expressing their wonder. Among
those who wrote to him was Dr. Samuel Hubbard Scudder, the Nestor among
American lepidopterists, who has since passed away. He said: “I am
simply astonished at the fidelity to nature displayed by the plates in
your book, and at the low price at which the new process permits it to
be sold.”

That “The Butterfly Book” met a real need is shown by the fact that
more than thirty thousand copies have already found purchasers. It is,
however, a biggish book. The publishers, Messrs. Doubleday, Page & Co.,
have asked me to get up a little pocket manual of the butterflies,
similar in form to the “Flower Guide,” which has been most cordially
received by the public. I have therefore prepared the following pages,
to which in the gracious phrase of our forefathers I now “invite the
attention of the gentle reader.”

There are more than six hundred species of butterflies found in North
America, north of the Gulf of Mexico and the Rio Grande. Most of these
are figured in “The Butterfly Book.” In this manual two hundred and
fifty-five species and varieties are depicted in their natural colors.
They are mainly the commoner forms, which occur in the more densely
inhabited parts of the United States and Canada. I have, however,
included numerous forms from the Southern States, and not a few of the
more showy species from the Pacific Coast.

In some cases only half of the insect is shown. “Half a loaf is better
than no bread.” In some cases only one side of the wings is delineated.
Usually this is sufficient for identification. The inhabitants of this
earth have never seen but one side of the moon, but they know it when
they see it, unless they be like the tipsy pair, one of whom said to
the other, who was leaning against a lamp post, “Friend, is that the
moon, or a lamp?” and who received the reply: “Don’t ask me, I’m a
stranger myself in these parts.” By showing only one half, or one side,
of a species I have been able to illustrate many more than I could
otherwise have done.

The figures of some of the larger species have been slightly reduced to
accommodate them to the page, but as the natural size is always given
in the description the student need not be perplexed.

The author hopes that his readers will have as much pleasure in
studying the winged fairies of the woods and the fields as he has had
in preparing this small pocket guide for their assistance.




                             INTRODUCTORY

THE PLACE OF BUTTERFLIES IN THE ANIMAL KINGDOM


The Animal Kingdom is divided into various _subkingdoms_. One of these
is the subkingdom of the _Arthropoda_. This word is derived from the
Greek nouns ἄρθρον (_arthron_) meaning _joint_, and πούς (_pous_)
meaning _foot_. The _Arthropoda_ are animals the bodies of which are
made up of a series of rings or segments jointed together, and the
other organs of which are likewise composed of tubular bodies similarly
united. All arthropods are _invertebrates_; that is to say, they do not
have backbones and internal skeletons, such as are possessed by fishes,
reptiles, birds, and mammals, including man. Vertebrate animals have
_endoskeletons_, “inside skeletons.” In a ham, for instance, the bone
is internal to the muscular parts, or meat, and lies near the middle.
The muscles of a man clothe his bones. In the arthropods, on the
contrary, the hard parts clothe the muscles. Arthropods are therefore
said to have _exoskeletons_, “outside skeletons.” The body, the legs,
and other organs of an insect or a crab consist of a series of hollow
tubes held together by flexible skin at the points of union, and
controlled in their movements by muscles which pull from the inside.
The meat of a lobster is inside of the shell, or exoskeleton, as
everybody who has eaten a lobster knows. The arrangement is exactly the
reverse of that which we find in the vertebrates.

EXPLANATION OF PLATE A

  Fig. a. _Magnified scales of butterflies._ 1, ordinary scale of
  _Papilio_; 2, do. of _Colias_; 3 _androconium_, or scale from wing of
  male _Neonympha eurytus_; 4, do. of male _Pieris oleracea_; 5, do. of
  male _Lycæna pseudargiolus_ (Figs. 1-2 after Verity; Figs. 3-5 after
  Scudder).

  Fig. b. Patch of scales on wing of _Pieris napi_ (after Verity).

  Fig. c. Body of _Anosia plexippus_.

       I. Head. 1, antenna; 2, eye; 3, proboscis; 4, palpus; cl.
       clypeus; o, occiput.

       II. Thorax. 5, prothoracic leg; 6, mesothoracic leg; 7,
       metathoracic leg; e, e, e, episterna; c, c, c, coxæ; tr.,
       tr., trochanters of last two legs; f, f, femora of do.; s,
       s, s, scuta of first, second, and third segments of thorax.

       III. Abdomen. 1-9 segments; sp., sp., spiracles (after
       Burgess).

  Fig. d. Head and legs of _Œneis semidea_, showing aborted front leg.

  Fig. e. Palpus of _Argynnis aphrodite_.

  Fig. f. Leg of _Argynnis idalia_. 1, coxa; 2, trochanter; 3, femur;
  4, tibia; 5, tarsus.

  Fig. g. Knobbed antenna of _Argynnis idalia_.

  Fig. h. Clubbed antenna of _Basilarchia astyanax_.

  Fig. i. Hooked antenna of _Amblyscirtes vialis_.


[Illustration: PLATE A]

The subkingdom of the _Arthropoda_ is divided into six _classes_,
one of which consists of the _Insecta_ (insects). It is estimated
that there are three and a half millions of species of insects upon
the globe, not to speak of the vast number of species which are now
extinct, and known only by their fossil remains.

The Class _Insecta_ is subdivided into many _Orders_. To attempt even
to briefly speak of all these orders would take more space than the
publisher has allotted to the author, and it is enough to say that
butterflies belong to the order _Lepidoptera_. The lepidoptera are
divided into two _Suborders_: the _Rhopalocera_, or Butterflies, and
the _Heterocera_, or Moths. Both are characterized by having scaly
wings, hence the name, which is derived from the Greek words λεπὶς
(_lepis_) meaning _scale_, and πτερὸν (_pteron_) meaning _wing_.
Lepidoptera are “scale-winged insects.” Any one who has ever handled
a butterfly or moth, must have noticed upon his fingers a dust-like
substance, rubbed off from the wings of the captured insect. Upon
examining this substance under a microscope it is seen to be composed
of minute scales (see Plate A, Fig. _a_), and upon looking at the wing
of a butterfly under a magnifying glass it is seen to be covered with
such scales, arranged somewhat as the scales upon the sides of a fish,
or as the shingles upon the roof of a house (see Plate A, Fig. _b_).

Butterflies are mainly diurnal in their habits, preferring the
sunshine. Moths on the other hand are nocturnal, and fly in the
dusk, or after dark. Butterflies are therefore often called _diurnal
lepidoptera_, and moths are spoken of as _nocturnal lepidoptera_. There
are, however, a few butterflies which fly at dusk, and there are many
moths which are diurnal in their habits. Such moths are generally gay
in color, and for the most part inhabit tropical countries, although
we have a few such species in the United States. Ordinarily the best
way to distinguish between butterflies and moths is by examining their
antennæ, or “feelers,” as they are sometimes incorrectly called. In the
case of butterflies the antennæ are thread-like, terminating in a small
_knob-like_, or _club-like_ enlargement. It is this fact which has led
naturalists to call them _Rhopalocera_. The word is derived from the
Greek nouns ῥώπαλον (_rhopalon_) meaning a _club_, and κέρας (_keras_)
a _horn_. _Butterflies are lepidoptera having at the end of their
antennæ clubs, which are sometimes short, long, or hooked_ (see Plate
A, Figs. _g_, _h_, _i_.) The forms assumed by the antennæ of moths are
very various. The moths are therefore known as _Heterocera_, the word
being compounded from the Greek adjective ἕτερος (_all sorts_) and the
noun κέρας (_keras_) a _horn_. _Moths are lepidoptera having all sorts
of antennæ, except such as are club-shaped at their ends._ However
there is no rule without its exceptions, and there are a few rare moths
in tropical lands which have club-shaped antennæ like butterflies, but
none of these occur in the region with which this book deals.


THE ANATOMY OF BUTTERFLIES

The body of a butterfly consists of the head, the thorax, and the
abdomen (see Plate A, Fig. _c_).

The head carries two relatively large eyes, one on either side. The
eyes of insects are compound, and if examined under a microscope are
seen to have a multitude of minute facets, which serve to gather the
light from all directions, so that butterflies can look forward and
backward, upward and downward, as well as outward, all at one time.
Between the eyes on the upper part of the head arise the antennæ, of
which we have already spoken. The precise function of these organs in
insects has been the subject of much discussion. Supposed by some to
be ears, by others to be the seat of the sense of smell, by others to
combine within themselves these two senses, and by still others to
represent a sense which is not possessed by vertebrate animals, their
use in the life of insects is not yet clearly understood. The weight
of evidence seems to be in favor of the view that they are organs of
smell, and it is now quite firmly established by experiment that the
organs of hearing in insects are represented by certain pores and
openings on their legs. In front between the eyes and below the antennæ
are two little organs, each composed of three joints, which are known
as the _labial palpi_ (see Plate A, Fig. _e_). Between these, coiled up
like a watch-spring, is the proboscis, with which the butterfly sucks
up the nectar from flowers or drinks water from moist places (see Plate
A, Figs. _c_ and _d_). We have not the space in this little manual to
go more deeply into the anatomy of these organs, but enough has been
said to enable the beginner to recognize the various parts. The student
realizes that the head in general supports the principal organs of
sense and the proboscis, or mouth.

The thorax carries the organs of locomotion, which consist of four
wings and six feet. The thorax is made up of three segments, or
rings, the foremost of which is called the _prothorax_, the next the
_mesothorax_, and the hindmost the _metathorax_. The subdivisions of
the thorax are not easily distinguishable by examining the body of a
butterfly even under a microscope, because the bodies of butterflies
are generally heavily clothed with hairs and scales. In order to
clearly make out the subdivisions, which we are considering, it is
necessary to take a specimen and denude it of its scales and hairs,
and even dissect it under a glass. The correctness of the foregoing
statements then becomes apparent.

The legs of butterflies are arranged in three pairs, the foremost of
which are known as _prothoracic_, being attached to the prothorax;
the second pair are called _mesothoracic_, springing, as they do,
from the middle segment of the thorax; and the last are styled
_metathoracic_ legs, rising from the hindmost segment of the chest
(see Plate A, Fig. _c_). It should be noted here that in the great
family of the _Nymphalidæ_, or “Brush-footed Butterflies,” in both
sexes the anterior, or prothoracic pair of legs, are not fully
developed, being aborted (see Plate A, Fig. _d_) and therefore do not
serve for walking; and that in the families of the _Erycinidæ_, or
“Metal-marks,” and the _Lycænidæ_, or “Blues and Coppers,” the females
have six legs adapted to walking, while the males possess only four
ambulatory legs, the front pair being in the latter sex aborted in
these families, as in the _Nymphalidæ_. The legs of butterflies, like
those of all other insects, consist of five parts (see Plate A, Fig.
_f_) the first of which, nearest the body, is called the _coxa_, with
which articulates a small ring-like piece, known as the _trochanter_.
To the trochanter is attached the _femur_, and united with the latter,
forming an angle with it, is the _tibia_. The last division of the
leg is the _tarsus_, or foot, composed of a series of joints, to the
last of which is attached a pair of claws, which in butterflies are
generally rather minute, though in other orders of insects these claws
are sometimes long and powerful, this being especially true of some
beetles. The prothoracic legs of the _Nymphalidæ_ and of the males of
the _Erycinidæ_ and _Lycænidæ_ have lost the use of the tarsus, only
retaining it in feeble form, and the tibia has undergone modification.
In many of the _Nymphalidæ_ the tibia is densely clothed with long
hairs, giving this part of the leg the appearance of a brush, whence
the name “Brush-footed Butterflies” (see Plate A, Fig. _d_). The tibiæ
are often armed with more or less strongly developed spines.

The most striking parts of butterflies are their wings, which in
proportion to the size of their bodies are usually very large, and
which are remarkable for the beauty of the colors and the markings
which they display both on the upper and on the under side.

The wings consist of a framework of horny tubes which are in reality
double, the inner tube being filled with air, the outer tube with
blood. The blood of insects is not, like that of vertebrates, red in
color. It is almost colorless, or at most slightly stained with yellow.
The circulation of the blood in the outer wall of the wing-tubes
takes place most freely during the brief period in which the insect
is expanding its wings after emergence from the chrysalis, concerning
which we shall have more to say elsewhere. After the wings of the
butterfly have become fully expanded, the circulation of the blood in
the wings ceases almost entirely. The horny tubes, which compose the
framework of the wings of butterflies, support between them a delicate
membrane, to which upon both the upper and lower sides are attached
the scales. The two fore wings are more or less triangular in outline;
the hind wings are also subtriangular, but are generally more or less
rounded on the outer margin, and in numerous forms are provided with
tails or tail-like prolongations.

Inasmuch as in describing butterflies authors generally devote a good
deal of attention to the markings of the wings, it is important for the
student to become acquainted with the terms employed in designating
the different parts of the wings (see Plate B, Fig. 10). That part
of the wing which is nearest to the thorax, is called the _base_; the
middle third of the wing is known as the _median_ or _discal area_; the
outer third as the _external_ or _limbal area_. The anterior margin
of the wing is called the _costal margin_; the outer edge is styled
the _external margin_; the inner edge is known as the _inner margin_.
The tip of the front wing is called the _apex_, which may be rounded,
acute, falcate (sickle-shaped), or square (see Plate B, Figs. 1-4).
The angle formed by the outer margin of the front wing with the inner
margin is commonly known as the _outer angle_. The corresponding angle
on the hind wing is known as the _anal angle_, and the point of the
hind wing, which corresponds with the tip or apex of the fore wing,
is designated as the _external angle_. The margins of wings may have
different styles of outline, and are spoken of as entire, crenulate,
scalloped, waved, lobed, or tailed (see Plate B, Figs. 5-8).

A knowledge of the veins which form the framework of the wings is
important, because authors have frequently established genera upon
the basis of the wing structure. It is desirable on this account to
understand the nomenclature which has been applied to the veins. This
nomenclature is somewhat variant, different writers having employed
different terms to designate the same vein. In what follows the writer
has adopted the designations which are most current, and which are
generally accepted by authors. The best understanding of this matter
is to be derived from the attentive study of the diagrams given on
Plate B, Figs. 9 and 10. The veins in both the fore and hind wings
of butterflies may be divided into simple and compound veins. In
the fore wing the simple veins are the _costal_, the _radials_,
the _submedian_, and the _internal_; in the hind wing they are the
_costal_, the _subcostal_, the _radials_, the _submedian_, and the
_internal_. The costal vein in the hind wing is, however, generally
provided near the base with a short ascending branch, which is known as
the _precostal_ vein. In addition to the simple veins there are in the
fore wing two branching veins, one immediately following the costal,
known as the _subcostal_, and the other preceding the submedian, known
as the _median_. The branches of these compound veins are known as
_nervules_. The median vein always has three nervules. The nervules of
the subcostal veins branch upwardly and outwardly toward the costal
margin and the apex of the fore wing. There are always from four
to five _subcostal nervules_, variously arranged. In the hind wing
the subcostal is simple. The median vein in the hind wing has three
nervules, as in the fore wing. In both wings between the subcostal and
the median veins toward the base is enclosed the _cell_, which may be
either _closed_ or wholly or partially _open_ at its outer extremity.
The veinlets which close the cell are known as the discocellular veins,
of which there are normally three. From the point of union of these
_discocellular veins_ go forth the _radials_, known respectively as
_upper_ and _lower_, though the upper radial in many genera is emitted
from the lower margin of the subcostal vein.

EXPLANATION OF PLATE B

  Fig. 1. _Angulated_ or _acuminate apex_ of fore wing (_Grapta_).

  Fig. 2. _Falcate apex_ of fore wing (_Pyrrhanæa_).

  Fig. 3. _Square apex_ of fore wing (_Smyrna_).

  Fig. 4. _Rounded apex_ of fore wing (_Euptoieta_).

  Fig. 5. Hind wing _rounded at outer angle, twice-tailed_ (_Thecla_).

  Fig. 6. Hind wing _crenulate, tailed, lobed at anal angle_ (_Papilio_).

  Fig. 7. Hind wing with _outer margin entire_ (_Parnassius_).

  Fig. 8. Hind wing with _outer margin waved_ (_Argynnis_).

  Fig. 9. Neuration of wings of _Anosia plexippus_.

       _Veins_: C, costal; SC, subcostal; M, median; SM,
       submedian; I, internal; PC, precostal; UDC, upper
       discocellular; MDC, middle discocellular; LDC, lower
       discocellular; UR, upper radial; LR, lower radial.

       _Nervules_: SC 1, 2, 3, 4, 5, first to fifth subcostal
       nervules; M 1, 2, 3, first to third median nervules.

  Fig. 10. Wing of _Papilio turnus_, showing the names given to the
  different parts of the wings of butterflies.


[Illustration: PLATE B]

Butterflies generally hold their wings erect when they are at rest,
with their upper surfaces facing each other, and only the under
surfaces displaying their colors to the eye. In the genus _Ageronia_
the insect prefers, like some moths, to settle upon the bark of trees,
with the wings spread flat, and the head pointing downward. Many of
the _Hesperiidæ_, or “Skippers,” have the habit when they are at rest
of holding the fore wings folded together, while the hind wings are
expanded horizontally. Many of the butterflies known as “Hair-streaks,”
belonging to the genus _Thecla_ and its allies, have the curious habit,
when at rest upon the end of a twig or leaf, of moving their folded
wings backward and forward, first on one side and then on the other,
thus partially displaying with each movement the splendid blue surfaces
of the upper side of the wings.

The abdomen of butterflies consists normally of nine segments (see
Plate A, Fig. _c_). In most butterflies except the Ithomiids, the end
of the abdomen does not extend beyond the anal angle of the hind wings.
In the moths, on the other hand, there are multitudes of genera in
which the extremity of the abdomen extends far beyond the hind margin
of the posterior wings. This is particularly true of the hawk-moths.
A minute examination of the abdomen of a butterfly reveals in each
segment except the last a little valve-like orifice on either side.
These openings are known as _spiracles_ (see Plate A, Fig. _c_).
Through these the insect breathes. Insects do not breathe through
their mouths, like vertebrates, and their lungs, or what correspond
to the lungs of the higher animals, are not located in the thorax or
chest, but in the abdomen. The last segment of the abdomen carries
at its extremity the external organs of generation. The male may be
distinguished from the female by the so-called _prehensores_, or
“claspers,” two flattish, scale-like appendages which adhere one on
either side to the last segment of the body. These organs are quite
peculiar in their structure, and in recent years have received a great
deal of study, as it has been found possible by means of them to
distinguish closely allied species, especially among the _Hesperiidæ_.
It is, however, not possible within our allotted space to go into a
minute discussion of this matter. The abdomen of the female is devoid
of these appendages, and in this sex is generally heavier and plumper,
especially when the eggs, which fill the ovaries, have not as yet been
deposited.

Thus far we have devoted our attention almost exclusively to the
consideration of the external organs of the suborder of insects which
is under discussion. It may be of interest to devote a few paragraphs
to the internal anatomy of butterflies. To do the subject full justice
would require a volume; nevertheless some general statements may pave
the way for a more studious inquiry on the part of readers.

Butterflies take their nourishment in fluid form, principally from the
cups which Flora provides. The organ of ingestion is the proboscis,
which communicates with a bulb-like receptacle in the head, known as
the pharyngeal sac, controlled by a set of muscles which cause it
to alternately expand and contract, very much like the bulb-syringe
used by physicians. When the muscles expand a vacuum is created, and
the fluid is drawn up from the honeyed chalice of the flower into the
receptacle in the head; when they contract, a valve in front closes, a
valve behind opens, and the honey in the receptacle is forced backward
through the œsophagus into the crop, and thence into the stomach.
The stomach lies on the ventral or under side of the body, but above
the nervous cord, which lies still more ventrad. The stomach opens
posteriorly into the small intestine, which is followed by the colon,
the latter in turn being succeeded by the rectum. Connected with the
intestines are certain vesicles, which are known as Malpighian vessels,
and by some are thought to have the function of the liver in higher
animals.

Having thus briefly spoken of the nutritive system we may turn to the
circulatory and respiratory systems. The heart of a butterfly, as in
all arthropods, lies on the dorsal side of the body. Its location
corresponds almost exactly to that occupied in the vertebrate animals
by the spinal cord. It is a long tubular organ. It does not possess
chambers—ventricles and auricles—such as are discovered in the heart
of vertebrates, but it has an enlargement in the mesothoracic region
known as the aortal chamber. The movement of the heart is wave-like,
analogous to the peristaltic movement in the intestines of the
vertebrates. From the heart there go out lateral blood-vessels, which
ramify and intermingle with the capillary extremities of the tracheæ,
or bronchial tubes, through which air is imported by way of the
spiracles, and thus the blood is purified in a manner quite analogous
to that in which the blood of the higher vertebrates is purified and
freed from waste matter by oxydization. The process is, however, as has
already been pointed out, mainly carried on in the abdominal region,
and not exclusively in the thorax, as in the case of vertebrates.

The nervous system of butterflies consists of a cord with _ganglia_, or
nerve-knots, one for each segment of the body. As there are thirteen
segments in the body of a butterfly, there are normally thirteen such
ganglia, or nerve centres. The nervous cord lies in a position exactly
opposite to that which is held by the spinal cord in vertebrates. It is
situated on the ventral side of the body, and more ventrad than all the
other internal organs. The ganglion in the head is the largest of all
and forms a rudimentary brain, the greater portion of which consists of
two relatively large optic nerves.

The internal organs of reproduction in the female consist of the
ovaries, from which the eggs pass by way of the oviduct to the
ovipositor, which in butterflies is not so conspicuous or remarkable
an organ as is the case in many other insects. Communicating with
the oviduct are the spermatothecæ, which are receptacles in which is
retained the fertilizing fluid received from the male at the time of
coition. As the eggs, one by one, are passed from the ovaries into the
oviduct, they are impregnated through absorption of the spermatozoa,
which enter their walls, imparting to them vitality. The internal
organs of the male are tubular vesicles, or testes, which secrete the
seminal fluid, which by means of the intromittent organ is introduced
into the spermatothecæ of the female. Union between the sexes among
insects generally takes place but once, and is not recurrent. The
female, having been impregnated, proceeds at once to lay her eggs upon
the tender leaves or the bark of the plants upon which her progeny
are to be nourished, and then promptly dies. The life of insects in
the winged form is usually very brief. Inasmuch as there are great
differences between the sexes in insects alike in size, form, color,
and markings, it is well for the collector to carefully preserve
specimens which may be captured in copulation. Such specimens should
be designated as “Taken _in coitu_.” The writer in such cases uses the
formula “A ♂ _in coitu_ with B ♀,” which is put in minute handwriting
upon a label and placed upon the pin bearing the male insect. Upon the
pin carrying the female insect there is put the label “B ♀ _in coitu_
with A ♂.” The finding of insects _in copula_ is sometimes the only
way in which to definitely settle the question of sexual relationship
between forms. So different are some insects that the two sexes have
in a number of cases been described by early writers as belonging
not merely to different species, but to different genera, and even
families.




THE LIFE HISTORY OF BUTTERFLIES


Almost all insects undergo great changes, or metamorphoses, during
their existence. Butterflies furnish no exception to this statement.
They exist first as _eggs_; then they appear as _caterpillars_; the
third stage is that of the _chrysalis_; the final stage is that of the
_imago_, or perfectly developed insect.


THE EGGS OF BUTTERFLIES

The eggs of butterflies are beautiful objects when examined under a
glass. They have various forms. Some are spheres or half spheres,
some are conical, cylindrical or spindle-shaped, others are flat and
resemble little cheeses, and still others have the form of turbans.
There is endless variety of form displayed within certain limits. Their
surfaces may be quite smooth or they may be adorned with raised ribs
and sculpturings (see Plate C, Figs. _f_ and _g_) or marked with little
pittings or depressions arranged in geometrical patterns. They vary
in color. Some are white, some pale green, or blue-green; others are
yellow, orange, red, or purple. They are often spotted and marbled like
the eggs of some birds.

The eggs of butterflies are deposited by the female upon the plants
which are appropriate to the development of the larvæ. Caterpillars are
very rarely promiscuous feeders, and most species are restricted to
certain species or genera of plants. Even when they feed upon different
plants, observation shows that, having begun to feed upon a certain
plant, they prefer this to all others, and do not willingly accept
anything else. I have noticed frequently that larvæ which may for
instance feed in nature upon the wild plum or the lilac, having begun
to feed upon the one will steadily refuse the other if offered to them.
On several occasions I have lost broods of caterpillars by attempting
to change their diet, though knowing well that the species is found
feeding in nature upon the plants which I have offered to them. Almost
every plant has a butterfly or moth which is partial to it, and one
of the most wonderful things in nature is the way in which the female
butterfly, without having received a botanical education, is able to
select the plant which will best meet the needs of her progeny, which
she never lives to see.

The eggs are deposited sometimes singly, sometimes in small clusters,
sometimes in a mass. Fertile eggs, soon after they have been laid,
undergo a change in color, and it is then possible with a magnifying
glass to see through the thin shell the form of the caterpillar which
is being developed within.

When the development is completed the caterpillar emerges either from
an opening at the side or at the top of the egg. Many species have eggs
provided with a sort of lid, a portion of the shell being separated
from the remainder by a thin section, which finally breaks under the
pressure of the enlarging embryo within, this portion flying off,
the rest adhering to the twig or leaf upon which it has been placed.
Many larvæ have the habit, as soon as they have emerged from the egg,
of making their first meal upon the shell from which they have just
escaped.


CATERPILLARS

The second stage in which the insects we are studying exist is known
as the _larval stage_. When it is reached the insect is spoken of as a
_larva_, or _caterpillar_ (see Plate C, Fig. _h_). Caterpillars have
long, worm-like bodies, which are often thickest about the middle,
tapering before and behind, and more or less flattened on the under
side. Sometimes caterpillars are oval or slug-shaped. Very frequently
their bodies are adorned with hairs, spines, and tubercles of various
forms. The body of the larva, like the body of the butterfly, consists
normally of thirteen rings or segments, of which the three foremost,
just behind the head, correspond to the prothorax, the mesothorax,
and the metathorax of the perfect insect, while the remaining nine
correspond to the abdomen of the imago. These three anterior segments
bear legs, which correspond to the legs of the winged form in their
location, and are known as the true legs of the larva. Besides these
the caterpillar has about the middle of the body and at its posterior
end paired _pro-legs_, as they are called, which are its principal
organs of locomotion in this stage, but which do not reappear in the
butterfly. The mouth parts of caterpillars are profoundly different
from those of the butterfly. The imago lives, as we have seen, upon
fluid nourishment, and therefore is provided with a sucking organ, the
proboscis. The caterpillar, on the other hand, is armed with a pair of
cutting mandibles, with which it shears off tiny strips of the leaves
upon which it feeds. It holds the edge of the leaf in place with the
three pairs of true legs, while it supports its body upon the pro-legs
during the act of eating.

EXPLANATION OF PLATE C

  Fig. a. Caterpillar of _Anosia plexippus_ ready to change into a
  chrysalis.

  Fig. b. Do. after having partly shed its skin.

  Fig. c. Do. holding itself suspended in the air by grasping the shed
  skin between the edges of the third and fourth abdominal segments, and
  feeling about with the cremaster for the button of silk above.

  Fig. d. Do. after having caught the button and assumed its final form
  as a chrysalis.

  Fig. e. Chrysalis of _Papilio philenor_, held by button and girdle of
  silk.

  Fig. f. Egg of _Basilarchia disippus_, greatly magnified.

  Fig. g. Egg of _Anosia plexippus_, greatly magnified.

  Fig. h. Caterpillar of _Basilarchia disippus_.

   (All the figures are after Riley.)

[Illustration: PLATE C]

When the caterpillar emerges from the egg the head is in many cases
seen to be very large in proportion to the rest of the body. This
relative disparity soon disappears, however, as growth takes place.
As the larva increases in size, it soon reaches a point at which the
skin in which it made its appearance in the world becomes too small and
tight for further comfort and use. Thereupon it proceeds to moult, or
shed, this now uncomfortable garment. The skin splits along the back
and the caterpillar crawls out of it. Before moulting the caterpillar
always takes the precaution to attach this outer skin by strands of
silk to the leaf or branch upon which the moult is to take place.
Having escaped from the cast-off garment, the caterpillar sometimes
turns around and eats it before resuming its vegetable diet. The
process of moulting takes place four or five times before the larva
changes into a chrysalis.

Caterpillars differ entirely from butterflies in that they are able
to produce silk. Silk is a viscous fluid secreted by elongated sacs
located in the dorsal region. These sacs communicate with a minute
tube-like organ, known as the spinneret, which is located on the under
side of the head of the caterpillar, just back of the mandibles. The
fluid silk, as it is ejected through the spinneret, immediately hardens
on contact with the air and is deposited in the form of very fine
threads or filaments which the caterpillar uses for various purposes,
sometimes as lines with which to guide itself from place to place
and enable it to retrace its steps to its favorite resting-place,
sometimes to tie together the leaves in which it forms its nest, or
to weave a sort of shelter in which it conceals itself, and finally
to make the little buttons and the girdles by which, as we shall see
later, the chrysalis is held in place. Many moths weave from silk
compact structures known as cocoons, in which the chrysalis is lodged.
Butterflies do not weave true cocoons.

The time spent by the insect in the egg is generally short. The time
passed in the larval state may be short or long. When butterflies
hibernate, or pass the winter, as caterpillars, the time spent in
this state is long, and especially in the case of those species which
inhabit arctic regions. There are some butterflies which occur north
of the Arctic Circle, and we have ascertained that these, because
the summers are so short in the far north, pass two summers and the
intervening winter in the larval condition, and another winter in the
pupal stage, before they emerge and take wing. On the other hand, under
more temperate conditions butterflies of certain species may produce
two or even three broods in a summer, and in subtropical or tropical
lands there may be even more broods produced.

While it is true that almost all the larvæ of lepidoptera subsist upon
vegetable food, there are nevertheless exceptions, one of which is that
of the Harvester, _Feniseca tarquinius_ (see Plate LXXXVIII, Fig. 1),
the slug-like larva of which feeds upon scale-insects, or mealy bugs,
sharing the habit with certain allied species which occur in Africa and
Asia, as the writer has had occasion to point out a number of years ago
in certain of his writings.


THE PUPA, OR CHRYSALIS

The third stage in the life of lepidoptera is known as the pupal
stage. The caterpillar, having undergone successive moults and reached
maturity, is transformed into a pupa, or chrysalis (see Plate C,
Figs. _d_ and _e_). From having been an active, worm-like creature,
greedily feeding upon its appropriate food, it reverts to a form
which is stationary, as was the egg, and ceases to have the power of
locomotion. An examination of the structure of all chrysalids shows
that they contain an immature butterfly. The segments of the chrysalids
enclose the corresponding segments of the body of the butterfly, and in
sheathing plates of chitinous matter are enfolded the wings and all the
other organs which are necessary to the life of the butterfly when it
shall have emerged and taken wing. The act of transformation from the
caterpillar stage to the pupal stage is very wonderful. The caterpillar
makes provision for the great change by weaving a little button of silk
and, in the case of many of those larvæ, the chrysalids of which are
not pendant, by also weaving a little girdle of silk, which it passes
around its back, and which holds it in place very much as an Indian
baby is held by the strap which passes over the shoulders of the squaw
(see Plate C, Fig. _e_). Having made these preliminary arrangements the
caterpillar becomes very quiet, its hind pro-legs being securely hooked
and tangled into the silken button to which it is attached. After a
while, when the proper moment has arrived, the skin of the caterpillar
splits, just as in the moults which preceded, and by a series of
wriggling or vibratory motions the chrysalis succeeds in working off
the skin of the caterpillar until it has all been shed except where
near the end of the abdomen the skin is caught between the edges of
two of the horny rings which form the abdomen. Then the insect with
the _cremaster_, as it is called, a little spikelet at the very tip of
the chrysalis, which is armed with small hooks, proceeds to feel about
until these hooks become entangled in the silk of the button which has
been provided on the under surface of the twig, the stone, or the fence
rail, where the transformation is occurring. As soon as the chrysalis
is securely hooked into the button of silk it lets go of the little
section of the skin by which it has been supported and rapidly assumes
the shape in which it will remain until the time of its emergence as a
butterfly. These changes are illustrated on Plate C, Figs. _a-d_, which
are reproduced from “The Butterfly Book” after the drawings of the late
Prof. C. V. Riley. The chrysalids of all the Nymphalidæ are pendant;
those of the other families, except the Hesperiidæ, are provided with
girdles, as is shown on Plate C, in the figures which represent the
chrysalis of _Papilio philenor_. The chrysalids of the Hesperiidæ, like
the chrysalids of moths, are either formed in loosely woven coverings
of leaves tacked together with silken threads, or lie free under leaves
and rubbish upon the ground, thus resembling the chrysalids of moths.

Chrysalids are for the most part rather obscure in coloring, though
some are quite brilliantly marked with metallic spots as in the case
of the common Milkweed Butterfly, _Anosia plexippus_, the chrysalis of
which is pearly green in color, ornamented with bright golden spots.

The forms assumed by chrysalids are very various, especially among the
Nymphalidæ, and they are often ornamented with curious projections and
tubercles, imparting to them very odd outlines.

Some butterflies remain in the chrysalis stage for only a few days or
weeks; others pass the winter in this state, and this is true of many
of the species which are found in the colder parts of North America.
In temperate regions some butterflies have as many as three broods:
the spring brood, which comes forth from chrysalids which have
over-wintered, an early summer brood, and a fall brood. In tropical
countries many species retain the form of the chrysalis during the dry
season, and emerge upon the wing at the beginning of the rainy season,
when vegetation is refreshed and new and tender growths take place in
the forests.


THE IMAGO, OR WINGED INSECT

We have already spoken at length of the form and structure of
butterflies in the preceding paragraphs, which were devoted to the
anatomy of butterflies. It remains for us at this point to call
attention to the manner in which the butterfly undergoes transformation
from the chrysalis. This change is quite as interesting as that
which takes place when the caterpillar is transformed into the pupa;
and should any of my readers possess chrysalids I would advise them
to watch carefully and observe the curious events which follow one
another rapidly when the imago comes forth from the cerements of the
chrysalis. The coverings which ensheathe the head, the legs, and the
antennæ split, the head protrudes, the fore legs are disentangled and
are thrown forth, followed almost at once by the other legs, and the
insect proceeds to crawl out from the pupal skin, emerging with the
wings as miniature objects, the body trailing after as a long worm-like
mass. Having liberated itself from the sheathings of the chrysalis, the
insect immediately assumes a stationary position, head upward, body
hanging downward. Then by the action of the heart the fluids which fill
the body begin to be rapidly sent into circulation, more particularly
into the wings, which expand second after second, minute after minute,
the fluids in the body being transferred through the circulatory system
of the wings until the latter, hanging downward, have assumed their
full form. The insect then begins gently to move its wings, to fan
them, still remaining in the position which it first took. After a
while the wings become perfectly dry, and the long worm-like body has
shrunk up and has assumed the form which it will retain through the
subsequent life of the insect. Madame Butterfly then begins to change
her position. She carefully crawls a few steps to try her powers of
locomotion. She suddenly expands her wings, and, _presto!_ if you alarm
her, she is off, fluttering about the cage in which you may have her,
or darting forth into the room and through the open window, hieing
herself forth in quest of food, which awaits her in the honeyed cups of
the wild flowers.

EXPLANATION OF PLATE D

  Fig. 1. Illustration showing the way to disable a butterfly in the net
  by gently pinching the body where the wings come together.

  Fig. 2. A butterfly net.

  Fig. 3. _a_, hoop made of wire, the shanks tied together; _b_,
  ferrule, plugged at _c_ with a piece of cork; the shanks having been
  put into the top of the ferrule, melted solder is poured into the top,
  and a good net-ring is made.

  Fig. 4. Piece of paper used to cover cyanide at bottom of jar.

  Fig. 5. Collecting jar, with lumps of cyanide and sawdust at bottom,
  covered by paper, as shown in Fig. 4.

  Fig. 6. Expanding block, used to expand and mount insects, the wings
  of which have a tendency to droop or sink down.

  Fig. 7. Expanding block, used to mount insects, the wings of which
  have a tendency to rise up or close.

[Illustration: PLATE D]


COLLECTING BUTTERFLIES

In collecting butterflies the first thing is to get a net of some kind
with which to catch the insects without tearing their delicate wings,
and thus robbing them of their beauty (see Plate D, Figs. 1 and 2).
When I was a boy I made my own nets. I took a stick of tough wood
about four feet long, which was to serve as the handle. About seven or
eight inches from the upper end I wrapped it with copper wire; fishing
line will do as well. Then I split the stick down to the band I had
made around it. I then with my knife trimmed the two split portions
on their inner sides, so that they might be more flexible. I then
fashioned out of a piece of good green hickory (the white outer wood
must be used) a bow or hoop about twelve inches wide at its widest
part, and fitting this between the split ends of the stick put in a
wedge at the bottom of the cleft to keep the split ends well apart
and tied it neatly and securely in place. Upon the frame made in
this way I put a covering of green mosquito netting in the form of
a long bag. Many a fine insect I captured with this simple device,
which called only for a good jack-knife, a little ingenuity, ordinary
skill in whittling, and a supply of stout string. The cheapest and
simplest way to make the frame for a net is to take a long piece of
brass, aluminium, or galvanized iron wire about an eighth of an inch
in diameter and bend it into a circle, leaving two short shanks at the
end. Then fit the shanks into the top of the ferrule of a fishing-rod
plugged in the middle with a thin piece of cork or with clay, and pour
in melted solder. Plate D, Fig. 3 shows how the “trick” is done.

There are many devices for making frames for folding nets, and there
are a number of dealers in the United States who supply such nets at
moderate prices. The material for the bag of the net ought to be of
light stuff, and I prefer to use tarletan, preferably green in color,
or bobbinet. The latter is more durable though somewhat heavier than
tarletan. The bag of the net ought to be about three times as long as
the diameter of the ring upon which it is placed. It is well, after
the net has been sewed upon the ring, to cover it with a band of stout
dark-colored muslin, as otherwise the edge of the bag surrounding the
ring is apt to become speedily worn and torn.

The collector having provided himself with a net for capturing insects
must also provide himself with one or more collecting jars. It is
well to have several of these of a size convenient for carrying in
the pockets. For large specimens a larger jar is required; for small
specimens a smaller receptacle is better. The larger jar should
have the mouth about two and one half or three inches in diameter.
Wide-mouthed glass phials an inch and a half in diameter serve best
for the smaller receptacles. The stopper of the larger jar should be
of ground glass, of the smaller jar of good cork. Jelly tumblers or
glasses with tin tops make good collecting jars. In preparing the
jar for use place a few lumps of cyanide of potash about the size of
a filbert at the bottom; then put in a little clean sawdust to keep
the pieces of cyanide from rattling about; over the lumps of cyanide
paste a sheet of strong white paper perforated with a multitude of
holes. In doing this the writer has resorted to a simple method, which
is explained in the diagram on Plate D, Fig. 4. A piece of paper is
placed under the jar and a circle the size of the inside of the jar is
traced upon it. Then a disk is cut out about three quarters of an inch
greater in diameter than the original circle. The paper is punctured
over the entire surface included within the inner line, and then with
scissors little gashes are made from the outer circumference inward,
so as to permit of folding the edge of the disk inwardly. A little gum
tragacanth, or paste, is then applied to these upturned edges, the disk
is then inserted into the jar and pasted securely over the cyanide
by means of the upturned flaps. A jar thus charged will last for a
long time if kept stoppered when not in use. Cyanide has a tendency
to liquefy in the presence of moisture, and it is well therefore to
take care to keep the jar closed when not in use. It must, however, be
borne in mind that the fumes of hydrocyanic acid (prussic acid), which
are active in producing the death of the insect, will not be given off
in sufficient volume unless there is a small amount of moisture in
the jar, and in very dry climates the writer has sometimes found it
necessary to moisten the bottom of the jar with a drop or two of water.
Jars also may be charged with lumps of carbonate of ammonia, but as
this substance bleaches the wings of insects, especially those which
are green in color, its use is not strongly recommended. Figure 5 on
Plate D shows a jar prepared for use.

When a butterfly has been caught in the net it is apt to flutter about
and struggle violently, thus injuring its wings. It is well therefore
as soon as the insect has been captured to take hold of it at the
point where the wings join the body, while it is still in the net,
and by gently pinching the thorax to disable the insect. The fingers
are applied from the outside, as shown in the illustration (see Plate
D, Fig. 1). Then the collector, unstoppering his jar, inserts it into
the net and allows the butterfly to drop into the jar. Butterflies
belonging to the family of the _Hesperiidæ_, or “skippers,” are best
captured in the net by holding up the end of the bag. The insects will
then fly upward and settle near the top of the bag. The collector puts
the open jar with his right hand into the ring of the net and holding
the bag with the left hand brings the jar under the butterfly, and then
claps his left hand over the mouth of the jar, thus securing the insect
in the jar, where after a couple of seconds it will be stunned by the
fumes and fall to the bottom. Death is speedy, but not instantaneous,
and the insect should be allowed to remain a little while in the jar.
Having been asphyxiated by the fumes of the jar, the insect may then be
removed and either mounted upon a pin and transferred to a collecting
box, which will presently be described, or put into an envelope. It
is well not to accumulate too many insects in the collecting jar, as
those which are caught later will injure in their struggles those
which have been caught first. I make it a rule to rapidly transfer the
insects from the collecting jars to the collecting boxes which I carry
with me. The preservation of specimens in perfect freshness, without
torn or ragged wings, is of the utmost importance, and it is better to
take fewer specimens, preserving them in immaculate condition, than
to accumulate a quantity of ragged and battered examples. The old
adage, “Practice makes perfect,” applies in the use of the net and the
poisoning jar. There will necessarily be some failures on the part
of the young collector at the outset, but if he is neat and quick of
finger he will soon acquire the art of taking and preserving perfect
specimens.

The field box should be made of tin and should have a sheet of cork
securely fastened at the bottom. In one corner of the box, tied in
gauze and securely fixed in place, there should be a few lumps of
cyanide. Into this box the specimens should be pinned as they are
taken from the collecting jar, and the lid of this box should be kept
tightly closed most of the time, being opened only when the transfer of
the pinned specimens to the interior of the box is ready to be made.
Inasmuch as pinning insects on the field is not always satisfactorily
accomplished, the writer prefers not to pin them, but to carry with
him a supply of small pay-roll envelopes, into which the insects
are put, and these envelopes are then put into a box which has some
cyanide secured in it, as has already been described. The writer also
carries with him a little phial of chloroform in his vest pocket,
and he sometimes uses this to stun insects or puts a few drops into
the collecting box and then closes it. The objection to the use of
chloroform is that it induces spasms of the thoracic muscles, and
butterflies killed by the use of chloroform are not nearly so easily
mounted as specimens which have been killed with cyanide. Beetles,
wasps, and other hard-bodied insects should not be put into the same
collecting jars as those which are used for butterflies, as they are
very apt to injure the latter, tearing and spoiling the wings. If the
collector is engaged in taking other insects besides butterflies and
moths, he should have special jars in which to put the beetles and
other hard-bodied and spiny things.

If the collector does not wish immediately to mount his specimens, but
to preserve them for mounting at a future time, they may be left in the
envelopes of which I have spoken, or may be “papered.” The simplest way
of putting up butterflies in papers is to take an oblong piece of any
kind of moderately good paper and fold it as indicated in the diagram
(see Plate E, Fig. _b_), first folding on the line a-b, then on a-d
and c-b; then on the lines b-f and e-a, as marked in the diagram. The
result is the enclosure of the insect as shown in Plate E, Fig. _c_.
A hundred or more of such envelopes may be put into an ordinary cigar
box. Such boxes, filled with butterflies, in order to prevent mould and
the ravages of pests, should have some chloroform or carbon bisulphide
put into them and afterward a spoonful or two of naphthaline crystals.
Then they should be closed and sealed up by pasting strips of paper
over the edges. Butterflies thus collected on journeys may be safely
carried for long distances without injury, or even transmitted through
the mails provided the boxes are strong enough to resist crushing. When
on journeys the writer of these paragraphs always papers his specimens,
bringing them home to be later carefully mounted at his leisure. It
is of the utmost importance to note on each envelope the place and
the date of capture, so that these may later be placed upon the little
labels or tickets which are put upon the pins after the insects have
been expanded and mounted for display.


MOUNTING BUTTERFLIES

The writer cannot do better in dealing with this subject than to
transfer from “The Butterfly Book” the substance of the directions
there given in relation to this matter.

       *       *       *       *       *

When the collector has time enough at his disposal he should at once
mount his specimens as they are intended to be displayed. The insect
should first of all be pinned. For this purpose “insect pins” should be
used. These are made either of soft steel or of pin metal. The first
are to be preferred, except in very damp climates, where they sometimes
rust if they have not been properly enamelled with shellac. The pin
should be thrust perpendicularly through the thorax, midway between the
wings, and at a considerable elevation upon the pin. It should then
be placed upon the setting board or setting block. Setting boards or
setting blocks are pieces of wood having a groove on the upper surface
of sufficient depth to accommodate the body of the insect and to permit
the wings to be brought to the level of the upper surface of the
board (see Plate D, Figs. 6 and 7; and Plate E, Figs. _d_, _e_, _f_).
They should also be provided either with a cleft or a hole which will
permit the pin to be thrust down below the body of the insect for a
considerable distance. As a rule the wings of all specimens should be
mounted at a uniform elevation of about seven eighths of an inch above
the point of the pin. This is known as the “continental method” of
mounting, and is infinitely preferable to the old-fashioned “English
method,” in which the insect was pinned low down upon the pin, so that
its wings touched the surface of the box.

EXPLANATION OF PLATE E

  Fig. a. Vivarium, or cage in which to breed caterpillars.

   _a_, base, kept even by cleats, _g_, _g_; on this is placed a pan 4
   inches deep made of sheet zinc, and filled with earth; to the middle
   is soldered a tube of zinc, into which a large bottle fits; the
   bottle is filled with water to keep the plants placed in it fresh and
   green; _b_, outer case, with sides of glass, fitting closely about
   the zinc pan; _c_, top, covered with wire-cloth, rabbeted on _b_, and
   easily lifted off.

  Fig. b. Diagram showing way to make paper envelopes for butterflies.

  Fig. c. Envelope folded with butterfly inside.

  Fig. d. Stretching board for expanding moths and butterflies. Strips
  of tracing-muslin are used on this to keep the wings down, paper will
  also serve the purpose.

  Fig. e. Stretching board, showing how wings may be held in place by
  pieces of thin cardboard.

  Fig. f. Showing the way in which the antennæ and body may be held in
  place with insect pins while the insect is drying.

[Illustration: PLATE E]

Setting blocks are most advantageously employed in mounting small
species, especially the Hesperiidæ, the wings of which are apt to be
refractory. When the insect has been pinned upon the setting board or
setting block, the next step is to set the wings in the position which
they are to maintain when the specimen is thoroughly dry. This is
accomplished by means of what are known as “setting needles.” Setting
needles may be easily made by simply sticking ordinary needles into
wooden matches from which the tips have been removed; steel insect pins
will serve as well. In drawing the wings into position, care should be
taken to plant the setting needle or pin behind the strong nervure on
the costal margin of the wing; otherwise the wings are liable to be
torn and disfigured. The rule in setting lepidoptera is to draw the
anterior wing forward in such a manner that the hind margin of this
wing is at right angles to the axis of the body, the axis of the body
being a line drawn through the head to the extremity of the abdomen.
The hind wing should then be moved forward, its anterior margin lying
under the opposing margin of the front wing. When the wings have thus
been adjusted into the position which they are to occupy, slips of
tracing-muslin or of paper should be drawn over them and securely
pinned, the setting needles being removed.

In pinning down the strips which are to hold the wings in place, be
careful to pin around the wing, but never if possible through it.
When the wings have been adjusted in the position in which they are
to remain, the antennæ should be attended to and drawn forward on the
same plane as the wings, and secured in place. This may ordinarily be
done by setting pins in such a position as to hold them where they are
to stay. Then the body, if it has a tendency to sag down at the end of
the abdomen, should be raised. This may also be accomplished by means
of pins thrust beneath on either side. Plate E, Fig. _e_, shows clearly
what is intended. When the insect has been set, the board should be put
aside in a place where it will not be molested or attacked by pests,
and the specimens upon it allowed to dry. A box with shelves in it is
often used for this purpose. This box should have a door at the front
covered with wire gauze, and the back should also be open, covered
with gauze, so as to allow a free circulation of air. A few balls of
naphthaline placed in it will tend to keep away mites and other pests.
The time which the specimen should remain on the board varies with its
size and the condition of the atmosphere. Most butterflies and moths
in dry weather will be sufficiently dried to permit of their removal
from the setting boards in a week; but large, stout-bodied moths may
require as much as two weeks, or even more time, before they are
dry enough to be taken off the boards. The process of drying may be
hastened by placing the boards in an oven, but the temperature of the
oven must be quite low. If too much heat is applied great injury is
sure to result. Only a careful and expert operator should resort to the
use of the oven, a temperature above 120 F. being sure to work mischief.

When butterflies or moths have been put up in papers or mounted on
pins without having their wings expanded and set, it becomes necessary
before setting them to relax them. This may be accomplished in several
ways. If the specimens have been pinned it is best to place them on
pieces of sheet-cork on a tray of sand which has been thoroughly
moistened and treated with a good dose of carbolic acid. Over all a
bell glass is put. A tight tin box will serve the same purpose, but a
broad sheet of bibulous paper should always be put over the box, under
the lid before closing it, and in such a way as to leave the edges
of the paper projecting around the edges of the lid. This is done to
absorb the moisture which might settle by condensation upon the lid
and drop upon the specimens. In a bell glass the moisture generally
trickles down the sides. Earthenware crocks with closely fitting lids
are even better than tin boxes, but they must have paper put over them
before closing, in the same way as is done when tin boxes are used.
When specimens have been preserved in papers or envelopes these should
be opened a little and laid upon damp, carbolized sand under a bell
glass or in a closed receptacle of some kind. Papered specimens may
also be placed in their envelopes between clean towels, which have been
moistened in water to which a little carbolic acid has been added.
The towels should be wrung out quite dry before using them. Pieces of
dampened blotting paper are even better than towels. The method of
placing between towels should never be used in the case of very small
and delicate species and those which are blue or green in color. Great
care must be exercised not to allow the insects to become soaked or
unduly wet. This ruins them. They should, however, be damp enough to
allow the wings and other organs to be freely moved. When the insects
have been relaxed they may be pinned and expanded on setting boards
like freshly caught specimens. It is well in setting the wings of
relaxed specimens, after having thrust the pin through the body, to
take a small forceps and seizing the wings just where they join the
body gently move them so as to open them and make their movement easy
before pinning them upon the setting board. The skilful manipulator in
this way quickly ascertains whether they have been sufficiently relaxed
to admit of their being readily set. If discovered to be too stiff and
liable to break they must be still further relaxed. Dried specimens
which have been relaxed and then mounted generally require only a short
time to dry again, and need rarely be kept more than twenty-four hours
upon the setting boards.

The process of setting insects upon setting blocks is exactly the
same as when setting boards are used, with the simple difference that
instead of pinning strips of paper or tracing-muslin over the wings,
the wings are held in place by threads or very narrow tapes, which are
wound around the block (see Plate D, Figs 6 and 7). When the wings
are not covered with a very deep and velvety covering of scales the
threads or tapes may be used alone; but when the wings are thus clothed
it becomes necessary to put bits of paper or cardboard over the wings
before wrapping with the threads. Unless this is done the marks of the
threads will be left upon the wings. Some little skill, which is easily
acquired by practice, is necessary in order to employ setting blocks
to advantage, but in the case of small species and species which have
refractory wings they are much to be preferred to the boards.

The work of mounting small insects which have been relaxed must be
done quite quickly and in a cool room or in a moist atmosphere. In a
very dry and hot atmosphere the minuter things dry so quickly that
difficulties are at once encountered.

       *       *       *       *       *

One of the best ways in which to secure perfect specimens is to breed
them from the caterpillar, or even from the egg. A stylish and very
good cage for breeding is shown on Plate E, Fig. 2. As good a cage
as this is not necessary, and the collector will succeed with one or
more clean store-boxes covered with a lid consisting of a frame over
which gauze or muslin has been stretched. The food-plant on which the
caterpillar feeds is kept fresh in bottles or jars. It is important,
after the plants have been put into the jar of water, to stuff around
the stems cotton or soft paper, so that the caterpillars may not crawl
down and, falling into the water, drown themselves. The bottom of the
box may be filled to the depth of four or five inches with loam and
covered with dead forest leaves. The loam should not be allowed to
dry out thoroughly, but should be kept somewhat moist, _not wet_. A
little sprinkling of water from time to time will suffice when done
with care. The caterpillars feed upon the food-plant, and finally
undergo transformation in the cage into the pupa, and eventually
emerge as the butterfly or moth. The breeding of lepidoptera in this
way is a fascinating occupation for those who have leisure to attend
to it. For more minute instructions in reference to this matter the
reader is referred to “The Butterfly Book.” The caterpillars and
chrysalids themselves may be preserved in little phials, in alcohol
or in a solution of formaldehyde. The latter, however, is not to
be recommended, because, although it preserves colors better than
alcohol, and does not tend to shrivel up the bodies, it makes them
stiff and difficult to handle and examine. The best way of preserving
caterpillars is to inflate them. Directions for doing this are
contained in “The Butterfly Book.”


THE PRESERVATION AND ARRANGEMENT OF COLLECTIONS

In order to preserve collections of lepidoptera in beautiful condition,
light, moisture, and insect pests must be excluded. Light bleaches
many species, especially those which are red, brown, or green in
color. Moisture produces mold and mildew. Insect pests such as mites,
_Anthrenus_, and _Dermestes_, the two latter being species of beetles,
devour specimens. The receptacles containing collections should
therefore be furnished with covers excluding the light, kept in a dry
place, and be so tight that insect pests will not enter. However, as
an additional precaution, it is well to place in every box or drawer
moth balls or lumps of camphor, secured so that they cannot roll about.
These tend to deter predaceous insects from entering the receptacles.
If by any chance they have entered, neither the naphthaline nor
the camphor in some cases will prevent their ravages. In the great
collections which are under the care of the writer it is a rule from
time to time to go over all the cases and put into every receptacle a
small quantity of carbon bisulphide. The fumes of carbon bisulphide
kill all grubs and matured insects which may have hidden themselves in
the cases, and it is believed that it also tends to destroy the life
in eggs which may have been laid in the boxes. Great care should be
used, however, in employing carbon bisulphide, as the fumes mingled
with the oxygen of the atmosphere form an explosive compound. The work
should never be done where there is danger of ignition from an open
fire or light. Boxes for the preservation of insect collections are
made by many firms, and prices for such receptacles vary according
to their size and the materials employed in their construction. All
receptacles, however, should be lined at the bottom with cork or some
other soft material into which the pins sustaining the insects can be
put. We employ in the Carnegie Museum a composition cork covered with
white paper, which is made in sheets of varying sizes, according to
requirement, by the Armstrong Cork Manufacturing Company of Pittsburgh,
Pa., the largest cork-manufacturing establishment in the world. This is
the most satisfactory material which is made.

Large collections are advantageously preserved in cabinets, the drawers
of which are covered with glass through which the insects may be
inspected without handling them. Here again, for the details of the
construction of boxes, trays, and cabinets, the reader is referred to
“The Butterfly Book,” which may be found in every public library, and
is in the hands of multitudes of individuals.

In arranging specimens the scientific order should be followed. The
species belonging to a given genus should be placed together. The
little labels attached to the pins should give both the generic and the
specific name, the locality where the specimen was taken, and the sex,
if known. For the purpose of designating the sex naturalists employ
what are known as “sex marks,” the male being indicated by the sign of
Mars, ♂, while the female is indicated by the sign of Venus, ♀. The
inscription _Papilio philenor_, ♀, means that the specimen is a male,
and the inscription _Papilio philenor_, ♀, means that it is a female of
the same species.

The classification of the genera and species should be subordinated
further to the classification into families. There are five families of
butterflies represented in the United States and Canada. They are the
following:

  1. The Nymphalidæ, or “Brush-footed Butterflies.”
  2. The Erycinidæ, or “Metal-marks.”
  3. The Lycænidæ, or “Blues,” “Coppers,” and “Hair-streaks.”
  4. The Papilionidæ, or the “Swallowtails” and their allies.
  5. The Hesperiidæ, or the “Skippers.”

In every well-arranged collection of butterflies certain
drawers or boxes should be set apart for the reception of the insects
belonging to these families, and they should be placed under their
proper genera, according to their species. Nothing is more beautiful
or interesting to those who have a love of nature than a collection of
butterflies thus classified and displayed.

In recent years an ingenious friend of mine has devised a system of
mounting butterflies under glass in cases made of a shell of plaster of
paris, which he backs with cardboard and seals around the edges with
gummed paper. Latterly he has taken to mounting them between pieces of
glass which he secures in the same way. Specimens thus preserved keep
well, may be handled readily without fear of injury to them, and in the
glass cases both sides of their wings may be examined. A collection
of butterflies mounted in this way may be stored in shallow trays and
placed in scientific order. The process of mounting in this fashion is,
however, somewhat laborious and expensive, and is not generally adopted
by scientific men, who wish to be free to examine their specimens under
the magnifying glass, occasionally touching the wings with benzine to
disclose the facts of neuration, and to minutely investigate the feet
and other parts of the body, which, when sealed up in the way I have
described, are not easily accessible.

       *       *       *       *       *

Having thus briefly outlined the principal facts as to the nature
of butterflies in general, and the best methods of collecting and
preserving them, we now pass on to the description of the commoner
species which are found on the continent of North America, north of
Mexico and the Straits of Florida.


                        Class INSECTA (Insects)
                Order LEPIDOPTERA (Scale-winged Insects)
                   Suborder RHOPALOCERA (Butterflies)
            Family NYMPHALIDÆ (The Brush-footed Butterflies)

The Nymphalidæ may be distinguished from all other butterflies by the
fact that _in both sexes the foremost, or prothoracic, pair of legs is
greatly dwarfed, useless for walking, and therefore carried folded
up against the breast_. This is the largest of all the families of
butterflies and has been subdivided into many subfamilies. Some of the
genera are composed of small species, but most of them are made up of
large or medium-sized forms. To this family belong many of the most
gorgeously colored butterflies of the tropics, among them the brilliant
blue _Morphos_ of equatorial America.

The caterpillars, when they emerge from the egg, have heads much
greater in diameter than the rest of their bodies. In the earlier
stages the bodies taper from before backward, and are adorned with
little wart-like protuberances, which bear hairs. In later stages these
little protuberances in many genera are replaced by branching spines
and fleshy projections, which impart to the caterpillars a forbidding
appearance. The mature caterpillar generally has a cylindrical body,
but in the subfamilies, _Satyrinæ_ and _Morphinæ_, the larvæ are
thicker at the middle, tapering forward and backward.

The chrysalids, which are generally marked by metallic spots, always
hang suspended by the tail, except in the case of a few arctic species,
which are found under a frail covering composed of strands of silk
woven about the roots of tufts of grass, under which the larva takes
shelter at the time of pupation.

In the region with which this booklet deals all the butterflies
belonging to the _Nymphalidæ_ fall naturally into one or the other of
the following subfamilies: (1) the _Euplœinæ_, or Euplœids; (2) the
_Ithomiinæ_, the Ithomiids; (3) the _Heliconiinæ_, the Heliconians; (4)
the _Nymphalinæ_, the Nymphs; (5) the _Satyrinæ_, the Satyrs; (6) the
_Libytheinæ_, the Snout-butterflies.


KEY TO THE SUBFAMILIES OF THE NYMPHALIDÆ OF TEMPERATE NORTH AMERICA

  I. With the veins of the fore wings not greatly swollen at the base.
    A. Antennæ naked, not clothed with scales.
      (a) Fore wings less than twice as long as broad         _Euplœinæ._
      (b) Fore wings twice as long as broad and often translucent,
        the abdomen extending far beyond the inner
        angle of the hind wings                              _Ithomiinæ._
    B. Antennæ clothed with scales, at least above.
      (a) Fore wings at least twice as long as broad       _Heliconiinæ._
      (b) Fore wings less than twice as long as broad.
          1. Palpi not as long as the thorax                _Nymphalinæ._
          2. Palpi longer than the thorax                   _Libytheinæ._
  II. With some of the veins of the fore wing greatly swollen at the
       base                                                   _Satyrinæ._




Subfamily EUPLŒINÆ (The Euplœids).


Large or medium-sized butterflies; fore wings somewhat produced at
apex; hind wings rounded, never with tails; fore legs greatly atrophied
in the males, somewhat less so in the females; hind wings of the males
marked with one or more sexual brands which in the American species
are located on or near the first median nervule; some of the oriental
species are white, many are dark brown or black in color, shot with
purple and violet; all of the American species are of some shade of
reddish brown or fulvous, with the apex of the fore wings and the
outer borders of both fore and hind wings margined widely with darker
color, and the veins and nervules also darker, standing out in bold
relief upon the lighter ground-color; the apex of the primary and the
outer border of the secondary wings are more or less spotted with light
color, often with white.

The adult caterpillars are cylindrical in form, adorned with long
fleshy filaments, and with their bodies of some light shade of yellow
or green banded with darker colors. The American species feeds upon the
plants belonging to the family of the _Asclepiadaceæ_, or Milkweeds.

The chrysalis is smooth, pale in color, often ornamented with metallic
spots, usually golden.

This subfamily, which is represented in the tropics of the Old World by
many genera and species, is only represented in the United States by
one genus, _Anosia_.




GENUS ANOSIA HÜBNER


_Butterfly_, large or medium-sized; fore wings triangular, produced;
hind wings rounded, the inner margins clasping the abdomen when
at rest; apex, outer margins, and veins, dark; male with sex-mark
on first median nervule of hind wing. _Egg_ ovate conical, ribbed
perpendicularly and horizontally. _Larva_ cylindrical, with long, dark,
fleshy filaments before and behind; body usually pale in color, ringed
with dark bands. _Chrysalis_ pendant, stout, cylindrical, abdomen
rapidly tapering, and ending in long cremaster; pale, with metallic
spots.

A large genus, many species being found in the tropics of both
hemispheres, but only two in the United States. The insects are
“protected,” being distasteful to other animals, thus escaping attack.

[Illustration: PL. I]

(1) _Anosia plexippus_ (Linnæus), The Monarch, Plate I, ♂; Plate C,
Fig. g, _egg_; Figs. a-c, _larva pupating_; Fig. d, _chrysalis_.

Upper side of wings reddish brown, apex, margins, and veins black,
under side paler; a double row of whitish spots on outer borders, apex
crossed by two bands of light spots. Expanse of wings 3.25 to 4.25
inches. _Egg_ pale green. _Caterpillar_ feeds on milkweeds, and is
found in Pennsylvania from June onward. _Chrysalis_ pale green spotted
with gold.

Breeds continuously. As summer comes the butterflies move north,
laying eggs. The insect spreads until it reaches its northern limit in
the Dominion of Canada. In fall it returns. Swarms of the retreating
butterflies gather on the northern shores of Lakes Erie and Ontario and
in southern New Jersey. Recently the Monarch has become domiciled in
many parts of the Old World.

[Illustration: PL. II]

(2) _Anosia berenice_ (Cramer), The Queen, Plate II, ♀.

Smaller than the Monarch; the ground-color of the wings livid brown.
The markings, as shown by the Plate, are somewhat different from those
of the preceding species. Expanse 2.5 to 3 inches.

This butterfly does not occur in the North, but ranges through New
Mexico, Texas, Arizona, and southward.




Subfamily ITHOMIINÆ (THE ITHOMIIDS).


_Butterflies_ of moderate size, though a few species are quite large.
Fore wings at least twice as long as wide; hind wings small and
rounded, without tails. Abdomen produced beyond the margin of the hind
wing. Wings more or less transparent. Antennæ long and very slender,
with a slender club at end, naked. Fore legs greatly atrophied,
especially in the males. _Larvæ_ and _chrysalids_ resembling those of
the _Euplœinæ_, the chrysalids being short, cylindrical, and marked
with metallic spots. The family, with the exception of the Australian
genus, _Hamadryas_, is confined to the New World, in the tropics of
which there are swarms of genera and species. Like the _Euplœinæ_ they
are “protected.” But two genera are reported from our territory.




GENUS CERATINIA FABRICIUS


Distinguished from other allied genera by the strongly lobed costal
margin of the hind wings in the male.

There are fifty species of this genus known from the American tropics,
but only one occurs within the limits of the United States, and only in
the extreme southwestern portion of our territory.


(1) _Ceratinia lycaste_ (Fabricius), Plate III, Fig. 2, ♀ (Lycaste
Butterfly).

This insect, which may easily be identified by the figure we give,
is reported from southern California. The plate shows the variety,
named _negreta_, which has a spot at the end of the cell of the hind
wing instead of a black bar, as is the case in specimens from Panama.
Expanse 2.1 to 2.25 inches. Wright does not include this species in his
list of butterflies of the west coast.




GENUS DIRCENNA DOUBLEDAY


Medium-sized _butterflies_, with quite transparent wings. Abdomen
not as long as in the preceding genus. Hind wing of male strongly
bowed forward at middle, the costal vein tending to coalesce with
the subcostal. Only one species occurs in our region. There are many
species in the American tropics.

[Illustration: PL. III]

(1) _Dircenna klugi_ (Hübner), Plate III, Fig. 1, ♂ (Klug’s Dircenna).

The wings are pale brown, narrowly margined with darker brown; the
fore wings have a pale yellowish diagonal bar at the end of the cell,
followed by two bands of similar spots, curving from the costa to the
inner margin. Expanse 2.5 to 2.75 inches.

_Habitat_: Southern California and Mexico according to Reakirt. The
citation of California by this authority may refer to Lower California.
In recent years no specimens have been taken in Upper California. It
may be that with the changes which have taken place in the development
of the country the insect has become extinct about Los Angeles and San
Diego, where Reakirt collected.




SUBFAMILY HELICONIINÆ (THE HELICONIANS).


Moderately large _butterflies_. Fore wings twice as long as wide.
Antennæ nearly as long as the body; club tapering, but stouter than in
the _Ithomiids_, clothed with scales above. Fore legs feeble in both
sexes. Color black, sometimes shot with blue, and variously marked with
white, yellow, orange, or crimson spots. _Eggs_ cylindrical, twice
as high as wide, tapering and truncate above, ribbed. _Caterpillar_,
when mature, with six branching spines on each segment. _Chrysalis_
angulated, covered with curious projections, making it look like a
shrivelled leaf, dark in color.

These insects, which are strongly “protected,” abound in the forests of
tropical America. There are many species, but only one occurs in our
region.




GENUS HELICONIUS LATREILLE

[Illustration: PL. IV]

(1) _Heliconius charithonius_ (Linnæus). Plate IV, ♀ (The Zebra).

The figure suffices for identification. The caterpillar feeds upon the
foliage of different species of Passion-flower. Common in the hot
parts of the Gulf States, thence ranging all over the American tropics.
Expanse 2.5 to 3.5 inches.




SUBFAMILY NYMPHALINÆ (THE NYMPHS).


The _butterflies_ belonging to this subfamily are usually medium-sized
or large, although some are very small. Antennæ usually as long as, or
longer than, the abdomen, more or less heavily clothed with scales.
Palpi stout, densely clothed with hairs and scales. Thorax stout or
very robust. Fore wings relatively broad, except in certain forms which
mimic the _Heliconiinæ_, produced at apex, more or less excavated
on outer margin; discoidal cell generally less than half the length
of wing, and in most genera closed; costal vein terminating behind
the middle of the front margin of the wing; the two inner subcostal
nervules given off before, the outer subcostals beyond, the end of
the cell. Hind wings rounded, or angulated, with the outer border
either rounded, scalloped, or tailed, the inner border always forming
a channel for the reception of the abdomen; discoidal cell often
open, or closed by an almost imperceptible veinlet. _Eggs_ conoid,
barrel-shaped, or globular, variously ornamented. _Larva_ when hatched
with minute wart-like eminences, each bearing a hair, the hairs
in later stages being replaced in many forms by branching spines.
_Chrysalis_ suspended, variously ornamented, often having on the dorsal
surface raised eminences, and the head bifurcate.

There are about thirty genera, containing somewhat less than two
hundred species, which belong to this subfamily in the United States.




GENUS COLÆNIS DOUBLEDAY


The _butterflies_ of this genus mimic the Heliconians in form; their
fore wings are long and narrow. The cell in the hind wing is open.
There are a number of species, two of which are found in the hot parts
of the Gulf States. The larvæ resemble those of the genera, _Dione_ and
_Euptoieta_, and, like them, feed on the Passifloraceæ.

[Illustration: PL. V]

(1) _Colænis julia_ (Fabricius) (Julia). Plate V, ♂.

The figure on the plate obviates the necessity for a description. The
insect occurs sparingly in Florida and in Texas, especially about
Brownsville. It is very common in Mexico, and thence southward. Expanse
3 to 3.5 inches.


(2) _Colænis delila_ (Fabricius), Delila.

Imagine all the dark markings shown in the figure of _Colænis julia_
on Plate V effaced, and replaced by the lighter ground-color, only all
of the wing a shade paler and yellower, and the fore wings a trifle
more pointed at the tip, and you have a mental picture of this species,
which has the same range as the one shown. Expanse 2.75 to 3.3 inches.




GENUS DIONE HÜBNER


This genus has the fore wings elongated, but less so than in _Colænis_.
The cell in the hind wing is open. The palpi are much more robust and
heavily clothed with hairs than in _Colænis_, thus resembling those of
the genus _Argynnis_. Like _Argynnis_ the under side of the wings of
all species of _Dione_ is spotted with silver.

There are a half dozen species of _Dione_ in the New World, all but one
of which occur outside of our limits. They are gloriously beautiful
insects.

[Illustration: PL. VI]

(1) _Dione vanillæ_ (Linnæus) (The Gulf Fritillary). Plate VI, ♂.

This lovely insect ranges from southern Virginia southward and
westward to southern California, and thence further south, wherever
the sun shines and Passion-flowers bloom. The figure on the plate does
not show the magnificent markings of the under side of the wings, but
catch one, and you will see that you have a beauty in your possession.
Expanse 2.75 to 3.25 inches.




GENUS EUPTOIETA DOUBLEDAY


There are two species of this genus found in the United States. The
_butterfly_ has the cell of the fore wing closed by a feeble veinlet
and the cell of the hind wing open. The antennæ and palpi resemble
those of the genus _Argynnis_. The under sides of the wings are not
spotted with silvery marks.

[Illustration: PL. VII]

(1) _Euptoieta claudia_ (Cramer), The Variegated Fritillary. Plate VII,
Fig. 1, ♂; Fig. 2, _under side_.

The caterpillar feeds upon the leaves of Passion-flowers and violets.
It is reddish yellow in color, with black spines on the segments,
white spots on the back, and dark brown bands running the long way on
the sides. The _chrysalis_ is pearly white mottled with black spots
and streaks. The insect ranges from southern New England south and
west, and is reported from as far north as Alberta. It goes as far as
Argentina in the south. Expanse ♂, 1.75 to 2.25 inches; ♀, 2.25 to 2.75
inches.


(2) _Euptoieta hegesia_ (Cramer), The Mexican Fritillary.

Very much like the preceding species, only the wings, especially the
hind wings, have very few dark markings, except about the borders, and
the insect is smaller. Expanse ♂, 1.6 to 2.25; ♀, 2.25 to 2.5 inches.

Found in Texas, Arizona, and southward.




GENUS ARGYNNIS FABRICIUS


_Butterflies_ of medium or large size, generally of some shade of
reddish fulvous, conspicuously marked on the upper side with dark
spots and waved lines, which are less conspicuously repeated on the
under side, and in many species in part replaced by silvery spots.
In some species the males and the females are _dimorphic_, that is,
very different in appearance from each other. The palpi are strongly
developed and clothed heavily with hairs. The antennæ have a short,
well-defined, flattened, somewhat spoon-shaped club. The cells of both
fore and hind wings are closed. _Eggs_ cone-shaped, flattened, and
depressed at the top, rounded at the base, ribbed both ways, mostly
near the base. _Caterpillars_ dark in color, spiny, with the spines
on the first segment the longest; feeding on violets at night, and
hiding during the day. _Chrysalis_ angular, adorned with more or less
prominent projections, head bifid.

This large genus has many species. It occurs in both hemispheres. Its
metropolis is North America, and we can speak of only a few of the
commoner and more conspicuous forms.

[Illustration: PL. VIII]

(1) _Argynnis idalia_ (Drury), The Regal Fritillary. Plate VIII, ♂.

The figure given will help the student to recognize this insect. The
caterpillar, when fully grown, is about 1.75 inches in length, black,
banded and striped with ochreous and orange-red, and ornamented with
fleshy spines, of which the two rows on the back are white tipped with
black, those on the sides black tinged with orange where they spring
from the body. The chrysalis is brown mottled with yellow.

Ranges from Maine to Nebraska, and southward among the Appalachian
highlands into West Virginia. Expanse 2.75 to 4 inches.

[Illustration: PL. IX]

[Illustration: PL. X]

(2) _Argynnis diana_ (Cramer), Plate IX, ♂; Plate X, ♀ (Diana).

This lovely insect is dimorphic, the male having the outer borders of
the wings orange-fulvous, while the female has the wings bordered with
blue spots. Expanse 3.75 to 4.5 inches.

It belongs to the southern Appalachian region, and ranges from West
Virginia and the Carolinas to northern Georgia, thence westward to
the Ozarks, being found sparingly in southern Ohio and Indiana, and
commonly in parts of Kentucky.

[Illustration: PL. XI]

(3) _Argynnis leto_ Edwards, Plate XI, ♀ (Leto).

The male of this species is in some respects not unlike the two
following species, but with the wings darker at their bases; the
female, on the other hand, is quite different, the dark spots on the
inner half of the wings running together and giving this part of the
wings a dark brown or black appearance, while the outer borders are
pale yellow. Expanse 2.5 to 3.25 inches.

This beautiful form occurs on the western side of the Rocky Mountains,
in California and Oregon.

[Illustration: PL. XII]

(4) _Argynnis cybele_ (Fabricius), Plate XII, ♀, _under side_ (The
Great Spangled Fritillary).

The male is bright reddish-fulvous on the upper side of the wings,
with the characteristic dark markings of the genus; on the under side
the wings are heavily silvered. There always is a pale yellowish
submarginal band shown on the under side of the hind wings which does
not appear in the next species, and by the presence or absence of which
they may be discriminated from each other. The caterpillars hibernate
as soon as hatched, and pass the winter in this state, feeding up
and maturing in the following spring when the violets begin to grow.
Expanse 3 to 4 inches.

This species ranges from Maine to Nebraska and southward to Georgia and
Arkansas. It is our commonest species in the Middle States.

[Illustration: PL. XIII]

(5) _Argynnis aphrodite_ (Fabricius). Plate XIII, ♀, _under side_
(Aphrodite).

Closely resembling the preceding species, but smaller. The under side
of the hind wings has the submarginal band narrower than in _A. cybele_
and often wholly wanting, as shown in the figure. The fore wings on the
under side are redder at the base than in _A. cybele_. Expanse 3 to 3.5
inches.

The range is the same as that of the preceding species.

The two species _A. cybele_ and _A. aphrodite_ usually are found flying
at the same time and in the same places, and when on the wing it is
often very difficult to distinguish them from each other. In fact they
seem to intergrade into each other, and in a long series of specimens
such close resemblances often occur that it is puzzling to decide which
is which. The deeper red of the fore wing of _A. cybele_ is the best
diacritical character. The paler outer margin of the hind wing of _A.
aphrodite_, which is typically shown in Plate XII, sometimes occurs
also in _A. cybele_, and I have specimens of the latter which very
closely approximate the former in this regard. In selecting specimens
for illustration I have chosen the two extreme forms in which the pale
wing of _A. aphrodite_ is seen to contrast on the under side with the
darker wing of _A. cybele_ shown on Plate XIII.

It may be remarked in passing that the genus _Argynnis_ is very
difficult, and the writer has been in the habit of comparing it to
the genus _Salix_, the willows, among flowers. Botanists know how the
willows seem to run together, and how hard it is to discriminate the
species. The same thing is true of this great genus of butterflies
with which we are now dealing. It is particularly true of the species
which occur in the region of the Rocky Mountains, of which the writer
has probably the largest collection in existence, including all of the
types of the late William H. Edwards. The test of breeding has not been
fully applied as yet to all of these forms, and it is doubtful whether
some of them are more than varieties or local races. There is here a
field of inquiry which should tempt some young, ardent, and careful
student. The day for more thorough work is at hand, and I hope some
reader of these pages may be converted to the task. Entomological study
should become more intensive, as well as extensive. The fathers of the
science have paved the way and laid foundations; it remains for the
rising generation to complete the work which the fathers have begun.

[Illustration: PL. XIV]

(6) _Argynnis atlantis_ Edwards. Plate XIV, ♂ (The Mountain Silverspot).

Smaller than _A. aphrodite_, with narrower wings, darker at the base
on both the upper and lower sides. The submarginal band below is pale
yellow, narrow, distinct, and always present. Expanse 2.25 to 2.5
inches.

Ranges from Quebec to Alberta and southward, but is confined to the
Appalachian mountain ranges in southern Pennsylvania and West Virginia.

The specimen figured on the Plate is the type of the male contained in
the collection of the late William H. Edwards. Although taken long ago,
it retains all its original freshness and beauty.

There used to be near Cresson on the summit of the Allegheny Mountains
a field surrounded by woodland in which violets grew. When the clover
was in bloom myriads of Fritillaries, belonging to the species
_aphrodite_, _cybele_, and _atlantis_, congregated there. What captures
we made! Many a collection on both sides of the Atlantic contains
specimens taken in that field, but no possessor of these specimens
can have the happy memories of the days passed in that field by their
captor.

[Illustration: PL. XV]

(7) _Argynnis callippe_ Boisduval. Plate XV, ♀, _under side_ (Callippe).

Wings on the upper side obscured with dark brown on which the pale buff
spots, margined with black, stand out conspicuously. On the under side
the wings are pale buff, with a greenish cast, the spots well silvered.
Expanse 2.3 to 3 inches.

Abundant in southern California, according to W. G. Wright, preferring
plains, and being confined mainly to the little hot valleys which
traverse them. According to the same author the life of the insect as
an imago is very brief, “the shortest of any Argynnid that I know of,
being only a few days in length.”

Many of the western species do not have the spots on the under side
silvered, but are none the less beautiful for that. One of these
species, without silvery spots, the spots being creamy white, without
metallic lustre, is the beautiful insect figured on Plate XVI, _A.
rhodope_, the under side of the female type of which we show. There are
nearly a dozen species of _Argynnis_ belonging to the same group with
_A. rhodope_, but the latter is the most beautiful of all of them.

[Illustration: PL. XVI]

(8) _Argynnis rhodope_ Edwards. Plate XVI, ♀ _under side_ (Type)
(Rhodope).

The wings of the two sexes are quite alike on the under side. On the
upper side, which we do not figure, the wings are bright fulvous, dark
at the base, marked with heavy, black, confluent spots. Expanse 2.2 to
2.4 inches.

Found in Washington and British Columbia.




GENUS BRENTHIS HÜBNER

(THE LITTLE FRITILLARIES).


Small or medium-sized _butterflies_, closely resembling those of the
genus _Argynnis_. The chief difference is that in _Brenthis_ only the
first subcostal nervule branches off before the end of the cell, while
in _Argynnis_ the first and second are thus given off; palpi not so
stout as in _Argynnis_; the basal spur of the median vein of the fore
wing, found in _Argynnis_, is wanting in _Brenthis_. _Eggs_ subconical,
twice as wide as high, truncated, vertically ribbed. _Caterpillars_
like those of _Argynnis_, but smaller, and often lighter in color,
feeding on violets. _Chrysalis_ pendant, about 0.6 inch long; two rows
of conical tubercles on back.

Sixteen species are found in North America, all of which but two are
subarctic or occur on high mountains.

[Illustration: PL. XVII]

(1) _Brenthis myrina_ (Cramer), Plate XVII, Fig. 1, ♂, _upper side_;
Fig. 2, ♂, _under side_ (The Silver-bordered Fritillary).

Well depicted in the figures we give. Expanse 1.40-1.70 inch. _Eggs_
pale greenish yellow. _Caterpillar_, when fully grown, about 0.87 inch
long, dark olive-brown, marked with lighter green, and covered with
spiny, fleshy tubercles. _Chrysalis_ yellowish brown marked with darker
brown spots, some having a pearly lustre.

Ranges from Nova Scotia to Alaska and southward as far as the mountains
of the Carolinas.


(2) _Brenthis montinus_ Scudder, Plate XVII, Fig. 3, ♀, _under side_
(The White Mountain Fritillary).

Upper side fulvous, the wings at base darker than in _B. myrina_,
the black markings heavier. Hind wings below much darker than in _B.
myrina_, the silvery spots being quite differently arranged, the most
conspicuous being a bar at the end and a round spot at the base of the
cell of the hind wing. Expanse, ♂, 1.50 inch; ♀, 1.75 inch.

A small species living on the summit of Mt. Washington, New Hampshire,
where a little colony has survived the glacial epoch, when the
northeastern parts of the United States were covered with glaciers, as
Greenland is to-day.

[Illustration: PL. XVIII]

(3) _Brenthis bellona_ (Fabricius), Plate XVIII, ♂ (The Meadow
Fritillary).

The only species of the genus, except _B. myrina_, found in the
densely settled portions of the continent. Easily distinguished from
_myrina_ by the absence on the under side of the wings of the silvery
spots, which make the Silver-bordered Fritillary so attractive. It is
generally found upon the wing in the late summer and the fall of the
year. In Pennsylvania it may be found when the asters are in bloom.

Common throughout Canada and the northern United States as far west
as the Rocky Mountains and as far south as the Carolinas. Expanse
1.65-1.80 inch.




GENUS MELITÆA (THE CHECKER-SPOTS).


Generally small or medium-sized _butterflies_. Palpi not swollen; the
third joint finely pointed; clothed with long hairs. Antennæ about
half as long as the costal margin of fore wing, ending with a short,
heavy, spoon-shaped knob. The cell in the fore wing is closed, in the
hind wing open. The spots and markings are differently arranged from
those in _Argynnis_ and _Brenthis_; the wings are never silvered on the
under side. _Eggs_ subconical, flattened on top, fluted on the sides.
_Caterpillars_ gregarious when young, then separating; cylindrical,
covered with short spines set with diverging hairs; feeding upon the
_Scrophulariaceæ_, _Castileja_, and allied plants. _Chrysalis_ rounded
at the head, with sharply pointed tubercles on back, white or pale
gray, adorned with dark markings and orange spots on back.

There are many species in the north temperate zone. Most of the more
than thirty species in North America are confined to the western part
of the continent, only two being found east of the Mississippi.

[Illustration: PL. XIX]

(1) _Melitæa phaëton_ (Drury), Plate XIX, ♂ (The Baltimore).

Easily recognized by the figure. One of the larger species, the male
having a width of 1.75-2.00, the female of 2.00-2.60 inches. Eggs
brownish yellow when laid, changing to crimson, and later to black;
deposited in clusters on balmony (_Chelone glabra_). Hatching in early
fall, the little caterpillars spin a web or tent of silk, where they
pass the winter. When spring comes, they scatter, fall to feeding, and
after the fifth moult turn into chrysalids, from which the butterflies
soon emerge.

Found locally in colonies in swampy places, where balmony grows, from
Quebec to west of Lake Superior and south to the Carolina mountains.


(2) _Melitæa chalcedon_ Doubleday and Hewitson, Plate XX, Fig. 1, ♂
(Chalcedon).

A common species in northern California, ranging eastward as far as
Colorado and Wyoming. One of the larger species, expanding 1.75-2.5
inches. The caterpillar feeds on _Mimulus_ and _Castileja_. The
butterfly is variable, the females in particular differing in the size
of the light spots on their wings.

[Illustration: PL. XX]

(3) _Melitæa macglashani_ Rivers, Plate XX, Fig. 2, ♀ (Macglashan’s
Checker-spot).

One of the largest species in the genus, exceeding in size the two
foregoing, having a width of from 1.85-3.00 inches; closely resembling
_M. chalcedon_, but the outer marginal red spots always bigger and the
yellow spots paler and larger than in that species. Occurs in Utah,
Nevada, and California.

[Illustration: PL. XXI]

(4) _Melitæa harrisi_ Scudder, Plate XXI, Fig. 1, ♀, _under side_
(Harris’ Checker-spot).

Fulvous on upper side; base of wings and outer margins black, black
margins widest at apex. Five fulvous spots in cell of fore wing, two
below it; two white spots on apex. Under side of wings well shown
in the figure we give. Expanse 1.5-1.75 inch. _Eggs_ lemon-yellow,
conoid, flattened at top, ribbed. Adult _caterpillar_ reddish, with a
black stripe on middle of back, nine rows of black, branching spines
on body. On each segment a black band in front of the spines, and
two black-bands behind them. Food-plants _Aster_ and _Diplopappus_.
_Chrysalis_ pale gray or white, blotched with dark brown.

Ranges from Nova Scotia to Lake Superior.


(5) _Melitæa perse_ Edwards, Plate XX, Fig. 3, ♂. _Type_ (The Arizona
Checker-spot).

One of the very small species of the genus. The specimen we figure is
the _type_, that is to say, the specimen upon which Edwards founded his
description of the species. Expanse ♂, 1.00 inch; ♀, 1.10 inch.

_Habitat_ Arizona and northern Mexico.


(6) _Melitæa dymas_ Edwards, Plate XX, Fig. 4, ♀. _Type_ (The Least
Checker-spot).

Even smaller than the preceding, having an expanse of only 0.85 to
1.00 inch. It is much paler on the upper side than _M. perse_, and the
markings are different.

Ranges from southwestern Texas and Arizona to Mexico.




GENUS PHYCIODES DOUBLEDAY

(THE CRESCENT-SPOTS).


Usually quite small _butterflies_, the species found in our region
being some shade of fulvous or reddish, above with dark markings, which
are less distinctly reproduced on the paler under side of the wings.
Of the spots on the under side the most characteristic is the crescent
between the ends of the second and third median nervules. This, when
present, is pearly white or silvery in color. Structurally these
insects differ most markedly from the preceding genus in the enlarged
second and the fine very sharp third joint of the palpi. _Eggs_
higher than wide, slightly ribbed on top, pitted below, giving them a
thimble-like appearance. _Caterpillars_ cylindrical, with rows of short
tubercles, much shorter than the spines in _Melitæa_, dark in color,
marked with paler longitudinal stripes. _Chrysalis_ with head slightly
bifid, generally pale in color, blotched with brown.

Numerous species occur in Central and South America, but only about a
dozen in the United States and Canada, most of them in the Southwestern
States.

(1) _Phyciodes nycteis_ Doubleday and Hewitson, Plate XXI, Fig. 2, ♂
(Nycteis).

Easily mistaken on the wing for _Melitæa harrisi_, which it closely
resembles on the upper side, and with which it is often found flying,
but an examination of the under side at once reveals the difference.
The redder fore wings, paler hind wings, and the crescent on the lower
outer border of these are marks which cannot be mistaken. Expanse ♂,
1.25-1.65 inch; ♀, 1.65-2.00 inches.

Ranges from Maine to the Carolinas and westward to the Rocky Mountains.

[Illustration: PL. XXII]

(2) _Phyciodes tharos_ (Drury), Plate XXII, Fig. 1, ♂. Variety _marcia_
Edwards, Plate XXII, Fig. 2, ♂ (The Pearl Crescent).

A very common little _butterfly_, which everybody must have noticed in
late spring or early summer flitting about lawns and gardens, and in
fall abounding upon clumps of asters. It may easily be recognized from
the figures given. Expanse from 1.25-1.65 inch. The variety _marcia_
comes from larvæ which have hibernated during the winter, and is
lighter and brighter in color, especially beneath, than butterflies of
the later summer and fall broods.

_Eggs_ laid on asters and related plants; greenish yellow. Matured
_caterpillar_ dark brown, dotted on the back with yellow; adorned with
short, bristly, black spines, yellow at base. _Chrysalis_ pale gray,
blotched with spots of brown.

Ranges from southern Labrador to Florida and westward to the Pacific
Coast.

(3) _Phyciodes batesi_ (Reakirt), Plate XXII, Fig. 3, ♂, _upper side_;
Fig. 4, _under side_, ♀ (Bates’ Crescent-spot).

Above closely resembling _P. tharos_, but with the dark markings much
heavier; below hind wings quite uniformly pale yellowish fulvous, with
a row of very pale marginal crescents; ends of veins tipped with brown.
Expanse 1.25-1.65 inch.

Ranges from New England to Virginia and westward to the Mississippi.

[Illustration: PL. XXIII]

(4) _Phyciodes pratensis_ (Behr), Plate XXIII, Fig. 1, ♂ (The Meadow
Crescent).

Closely resembling the preceding, but fore wings not as curved on the
costal margin, and relatively longer and narrower; the pale markings
more whitish, not so red, and more clearly defined. On the under side,
especially in the female, the markings are heavier than in _P. batesi_.
Expanse 1.15-1.40 inch.

Ranges from Oregon to southern California, Arizona, and northern Mexico.

(5) _Phyciodes camillus_ Edwards, Plate XXIII, Fig. 2, ♂, _under side_
(The Camillus Crescent).

Resembling _P. pratensis_, but the pale spots on fore wings paler, and
on hind wings brighter fulvous. Below the dark markings not nearly so
pronounced as in _P. pratensis_. Expanse 1.3-1.6 inch.

Ranges from British Columbia to Colorado and Kansas and south into
Texas.

(6) _Phyciodes picta_ Edwards, Plate XXIII, Fig. 3, ♀, _under side_
(The Painted Crescent).

Below fore wings red on median area, with base, costa, apex, and outer
margin pale yellow. The dark spots on this wing stand out prominently.
Hind wings nearly uniformly bright yellow. Expanse 0.8-1.25 inch.

Ranges from Nebraska as far as Mexico. The larvæ feed on asters.




GENUS ERESIA DOUBLEDAY


Closely allied to _Phyciodes_, but distinguished from it by having
the fore wing more or less deeply excavated on the outer margin about
its middle, and the light spots on the hind wings arranged in regular
bands. There are also differences in the form of the chrysalids and
caterpillars. The genus is best represented in Central and South
America, where there are many very beautiful species. Only three occur
in our region. We have figured two of these.

(1) _Eresia frisia_ (Poey), Plate XXIII, Fig. 4, ♂ (Poey’s Crescent).

Our figure of the upper side will enable any one to recognize it. Below
the wings are fulvous, mottled with dark brown and white, and the spots
of the upper side reappear as white bands and markings. Expanse 1.4-1.5
inch.

Occurs in the extreme south of Florida about Key West, and is not
uncommon in the Antilles, Mexico, and Central America.

[Illustration: PL. XXIV]

(2) _Eresia texana_ (Edwards), Plate XXIV, Fig. 1, ♀ (The Texan
Crescent).

Well represented in our illustration. Below the fore wings are fulvous
at base, and broadly marked with dark brown beyond the middle. Hind
wings at base marbled wood-brown, and dark externally like the fore
wings. The light spots of upper side reappear on lower side, but not so
distinctly. Expanse 1.25-1.75 inch.

Ranges through Texas into Mexico, and South America. The genus _Eresia_
is undoubtedly one of those which originated in the warm neotropical
regions and which since the glacial epoch have spread northward. Many
of our genera have come to us from the South.




GENUS SYNCHLOE BOISDUVAL (THE PATCH-SPOTS).


Medium-sized or small _butterflies_, often very gayly colored. Wings
generally more produced than in the two foregoing genera, more
excavated on outer margin of primaries, and third joint of palpus
spindle-shaped, not sharp like the point of a needle, as in _Phyciodes_
and _Eresia_. The lower discocellular vein in the fore wing is straight
and not angled, as in the two last-named genera. _Eggs_, which are laid
in clusters upon sunflowers (_Helianthus_), like those of _Phyciodes_
in general appearance; the _caterpillars_ and _chrysalids_ like those
of _Melitæa_. There are many species of the group found in the American
tropics, and among them are many curious mimetic insects, which
resemble miniature Heliconians and Ithomiids. Three species occur in
our southland, one of which we figure.

(1) _Synchloë janais_ (Drury), Plate XXIV, Fig. 2, ♂ (The
Crimson-patch).

The upper side of a small male specimen is well shown in our figure.
Below the markings of the upper side are reproduced in the fore wings.
Hind wings on this side black at base and on outer third. The basal
area crossed by a yellow bar, on middle of wing a broad yellow band,
washed externally with crimson, in which are numerous black spots.
There is a marginal row of yellow, and a limbal row of white spots
parallel to the outer border. Expanse 2.50-3.00 inches.

Ranges through southern Texas, Mexico, and Central America.




GENUS GRAPTA KIRBY (THE ANGLE-WINGS).


Medium-sized or small _butterflies_; fore wing strongly acuminate at
end of upper radial, deeply excavated on outer and inner border; hind
wing tailed at end of third median nervule; cells on both wings closed;
palpi heavily scaled beneath. Upper side of wings tawny, spotted
with darker, under side mimicking the color of bark and dead leaves,
often with a silvery spot about middle of hind wing. The butterflies
hibernate in winter. _Eggs_ taller than broad, tapering toward top,
which is flat, adorned with a few longitudinal ribs, increasing in
height upward, laid in clusters, or strung together, then looking like
beads. _Larva_ with squarish head; body cylindrical, adorned with
branching spines. _Chrysalids_ with head bifid; prominent tubercle on
back of thorax; two rows of dorsal tubercles on abdomen; compressed
laterally in thoracic region; color wood-brown or greenish. The
caterpillars feed upon plants of the nettle tribe, including the elm
and hops, though willows, azalea, and wild currants are affected by
different species.

The genus is confined to the northern temperate zone. We have about
a dozen species in America, of which five have been selected for
illustration.

[Illustration: PL. XXV]

(1) _Grapta interrogationis_ (Fabricius), form _fabricii_ Edwards,
Plate XXV, ♂ (The Question-sign).

The largest species of the genus in our fauna. Dimorphic, the upper
sides of the hind wings in the form _fabricii_ being fulvous with dark
markings, those of the form _umbrosa_ Lintner being uniformly dark,
except at base. In the Middle States double-brooded. The second brood
hibernates in the winged form. Expanse 2.50 inches.

Found throughout Canada and the United States, except on the Pacific
Coast.

[Illustration: PL. XXVI]

(2) _Grapta comma_ (Harris), form _dryas_ Edwards, Plate XXVI, ♂ (The
Comma Butterfly).

Larvæ feed on nettles; some are almost snow-white. The species is
dimorphic. In the form _dryas_ Edwards the hind wings are dark above,
in the form _harrisi_ Edwards they are lighter in color. Expanse
1.75-2.00 inches.

The range is much the same as that of the Question-mark.

[Illustration: PL. XXVII]

(3) _Grapta faunus_ Edwards, Plate XXVII, ♀ (The Faun).

Readily recognized by the deep indentations of the hind wings, the
heavy black border, and the dark tints of the under side mottled
conspicuously with paler shades. Expanse 2.00-2.15 inches. The larva
feeds on willows.

Ranges from New England and Ontario to the Carolinas, thence westward
to the Pacific.

As I have remarked of the genus _Argynnis_ that it is difficult, so
also I may say of the genus _Grapta_ that it provokes much discussion
among those who have not had the opportunity to study full series of
specimens of the various species. The resemblances are very great, and
the differences are not accentuated, so that the superficial observer
is easily led astray. The differences are, however, valid, even on
the upper side of the specimens, which are more nearly alike than the
lower side. Take the two species here presented to view on opposite
pages. They resemble each other closely, but the student will soon see
that there are differences, and these are constant. On the under side
they are very great, _G. faunus_ being light in color below, while _G.
silenus_ is very dark. In both species at the end of the cell of the
hind wing there is on the under side a silvery spot which has the form
of an inverted L (⅂), or is rudely comma-shaped.

[Illustration: PL. XXVIII]

(4) _Grapta silenus_ Edwards, Plate XXVIII, ♂, _Type_ (The Toper).

Wings in form very much like those of _G. faunus_, but the fore wing
not as strongly produced at the ends of the upper radial, and the hind
wing at the end of the first submedian. The wings are much darker below
than in _faunus_, without large pale spots, at most sprinkled with
white scales. Expanse 2.00-2.30 inches.

Occurs in British Columbia, Washington, and Oregon.

The life history of this species is not as yet known. It is highly
probable that the insect has the same tastes as the other species of
the genus, and lives upon much the same food-plants. The late W. G.
Wright, who was a careful observer, states that the butterfly haunts
partially wooded places upon hillsides in the region where it is found.
It is to be hoped that some bright young person in Oregon or Washington
may succeed in breeding the larvæ to maturity, giving us an account of
his observations. It is a mistake to suppose that everything which is
worth knowing is already known about our lepidoptera. There is much for
the students of the future to find out.

[Illustration: PL. XXIX]

(5) _Grapta progne_ (Cramer), Plate XXIX, ♂ (The Currant Angle-wing).

Somewhat smaller than any of the foregoing species. Fore wings light
fulvous shading into yellow outwardly. The dark markings are smaller
than in the other species, but pronounced and clearly defined. Wings
below very dark, sprinkled with lighter scales. Expanse 1.85-2.00
inches.

The larva feeds upon all kinds of plants belonging to the currant
family.

Ranges from Siberia to Nova Scotia, thence south to the latitude of
Pennsylvania.




GENUS VANESSA FABRICIUS

(THE TORTOISE-SHELLS).


_Butterflies_ of medium size. Eyes hairy; palpi somewhat heavily
scaled; cell of fore wings may or may not be closed, that of hind
wing always open. Fore wings more or less excavated about middle and
somewhat produced at ends of upper radial and first median, but not so
strongly as in _Grapta_. Hind wings, with outer margin toothed at ends
of veins and strongly produced at end of third median nervule. _Eggs_
short, ovoid, tapering above, and having a few narrow longitudinal
ribs, which increase in depth upward; laid in large clusters.
_Caterpillars_ when mature, cylindrical, with longitudinal rows of
branching spines. Feeding upon elms, willows, and poplars. _Chrysalis_
not unlike that of _Grapta_.

The genus is restricted to the north temperate zone and the colder
mountain regions of subtropical lands. The butterflies hibernate, and
are among the first to be seen in the springtime.

[Illustration: PL. XXX]

(1) _Vanessa antiopa_ (Linnæus), Plate XXX, ♀ (The Mourning Cloak, The
Camberwell Beauty).

This familiar insect needs no description. It occurs everywhere in the
north temperate zone. Eggs laid in large masses on willows, poplars,
and elms. There are two broods in the Middle States, the second
hibernating under eaves and in hollow trees. Expanse 2.75-3.25 inches.

There is a rare variety of this insect in which the yellow border
becomes broad, reaching the middle of the wings. Only two or three such
“sports” are known, one in the possession of the author. There are some
collectors who set great store by such “freaks” or “aberrations,” as
they are called.

[Illustration: PL. XXXI]

(2) _Vanessa j-album_ Boisduval & Leconte, Plate XXXI, ♂ (The Compton
Tortoise).

No description is necessary as our figure will enable it to be
immediately recognized. A close ally of the European _Vanessa
vau-album_. Expanse 2.60-2.75 inches.

Larva feeds upon willows. Confined to the northern parts of the
country, only occurring in Pennsylvania upon the summits of the higher
mountains, and ranging thence to Labrador in the east and to Alaska in
the northwest.

[Illustration: PL. XXXII]

(3) _Vanessa milberti_ Godart, Plate XXXII, ♀ (Milbert’s
Tortoise-shell).

Easily distinguished by the broad yellow submarginal band on both
wings, shaded outwardly by red. Expanse 1.75 inch. The larva feeds upon
nettles (_Urtica_).

Found at high elevations in the Appalachian highlands, ranging
northward to Nova Scotia and Newfoundland, thence westward to the Rocky
Mountains and the Pacific Coast, its distribution being determined by
temperature and the presence of its food-plant, though its distribution
seems to be more dependent upon climate than upon food, as nettles
abound in the Southern States, where the insect is never found.

In addition to the three species of _Vanessa_, which we have figured
upon our plates, it should be mentioned that there is a very pretty
species, known as _Vanessa californica_, which occurs upon the Pacific
Coast. It somewhat closely resembles the European _Vanessa urticæ_.
In southern California it is only found upon the mountains, but about
Vancouver and elsewhere in British Columbia it occurs at sea-level.
It is a pugnacious little thing, and fights at sight any other
butterfly which comes near. The food-plant of the larva is _Ceanothus
thyrsiflorus_. W. G. Wright informs us that the butterfly in the spring
delights to feed upon the gum of _Abies concolor_, when it is still
fluid.




GENUS PYRAMEIS DOUBLEDAY

(THE RED ADMIRAL AND PAINTED LADIES).


The _butterflies_ of this are like those of the last genus in the
structure of their wings, except that the hind wings are not angulate,
and below the hind wings are generally marked with eye-like spots.
_Egg_ ovoid, closely resembling that of _Vanessa_. Larva like that of
_Vanessa_, but spines relatively not so large and not so distinctly
branching. Form of _chrysalis_ very like that of _Vanessa_. The genus
includes comparatively few species, but most have a very wide range,
_Pyrameis cardui_ being almost cosmopolitan in its distribution, having
a wider range than that of any other butterfly.

[Illustration: PL. XXXIII]

(1) _Pyrameis atalanta_ (Linnæus), Plate XXXIII, ♀ (The Red Admiral).

This familiar butterfly is found throughout temperate North America,
Europe, northern Africa, and temperate Asia. Expanse 2.00-2.50 inches.

Larva feeds on the leaves of hop vines, on nettles, and _Bœhmeria_.

[Illustration: PL. XXXIV ]

(2) _Pyrameis huntera_ (Fabricius), Plate XXXIV, ♂ (Hunter’s Butterfly).

Marked much like _P. cardui_, but easily discriminated from it by the
two large eye-like spots on the under side of the hind wings. Expanse
2.00 inches.

Caterpillar feeds on cud-weed (_Gnaphalium_) and _Antennaria_. Ranges
from Nova Scotia to Mexico and Central America, being comparatively
rare in California, but more abundant east of the Sierras.

We all know Hunter’s Butterfly. How many know that its name
commemorates that of a most remarkable American, John Dunn Hunter?
Captured by the Indians in his infancy, he never knew who his parents
were. He was brought up among the savages. Because of his prowess in
the chase they called him “The Hunter.” Later in life he took the name
of John Dunn, a man who had been kind to him. He grew up as an Indian,
but after he had taken his first scalp he forsook the red men, no
longer able to join them in their bloody schemes. He went to Europe,
amassed a competence, became the friend of artists, men of letters,
and scientists. He was a prime favorite with the English nobility and
with the King of England. He interested himself in securing natural
history collections from America for certain of his acquaintances, and
Fabricius named the beautiful insect shown on our plate in his honor.
His _Memoirs of Captivity Among the Indians_ are well worth reading. In
that charming book, _Coke of Norfolk and His Friends_, which recently
has been published, there are some most interesting reminiscences of
this American gentleman, for gentleman he was, although reared by
savages. The presumption is established that his unknown progenitors
were gentlefolk. “Blood will tell.”

[Illustration: PL. XXXV]

(3) _Pyrameis cardui_ (Linnæus), Plate XXXV, ♀ (The Painted Lady; The
Thistle Butterfly).

Easily distinguished from the preceding by the numerous and much
smaller eye-spots forming a band on the under side of the hind wings.
Expanse 2.00-2.25 inches.

Found all over the world, except in the tropical jungles of equatorial
lands.

The caterpillars feed on various species of thistles, nettles, and
marshmallows.




GENUS JUNONIA HÜBNER

(PEACOCK BUTTERFLIES).


Medium-sized _butterflies_ with eye-spots on upper side of wings.
Neuration almost exactly like that of the genus _Pyrameis_, save
for the fact that the cell of the fore wing is usually, and of the
hind wing always, open. _Egg_ broader than high, flattened on top
and adorned by ten very narrow and low vertical ribs. _Caterpillars_
cylindrical, longitudinally striped, and with several rows of branching
spines. _Chrysalis_ arched on back, curved inwardly in front, and
somewhat bifid at head, with the two projections rounded.

There are a score of species, most of which are found in the tropics of
the Old World. Three occur in our region, two of which are found in the
extreme south. The one which is common we have figured.

[Illustration: PL. XXXVI]

(1) _Junonia cœnia_ Hübner, Plate XXXVI, ♂ (The Buckeye).

The spots of the upper side reappear on the lower side, but are much
smaller, especially on the hind wings. Expanse 2.00-2.25 inches.

The larva feeds most commonly on plantains (_Plantago_), snapdragons
(_Antirrhinum_), and _Gerardia_.

Very common in the Southern States, ranging as far north as New
England, west to the Pacific, and south into South America.




GENUS ANARTIA DOUBLEDAY.


Medium-sized butterflies, having a weak, hovering flight, and keeping
near the ground. Palpi have the second joint thick, the third joint
tapering, lightly clothed with scales. Fore wings rounded at apex, the
outer and inner margins lightly excavated, cell closed by a feeble
lower discocellular, which often is wanting, thus leaving the cell
open. Outer margin of hind wings sinuous, produced at end of third
median nervule, cell open. First and second subcostal nervules in fore
wing fuse with costal.

There are four species of this genus, one of which occurs in the United
States, the rest being found in tropical America.

[Illustration: PL. XXXVII]

(1) _Anartia jatrophæ_ (Linnæus), Plate XXXVII, ♂ (The White Peacock).

The figure we give will readily serve to identify this insect, which
occurs in Florida and Texas, and ranges thence southward to Argentina.
Expanse 1.75-2.00 inches.




GENUS EUNICA HÜBNER

(THE VIOLET-WINGS).


Rather small butterflies. Antennæ long and slender, with enlarged club,
having two grooves. Third joint of palpi of female longer than that of
male. The fore wing has the costal and median vein enlarged and swollen
at the base. The upper discocellular vein is wanting, the cell is
lightly closed. The hind wing is rounded, with its outer margin entire.

The species of the genus have the upper side of the wings dark brown
or black glossed with violet, blue, or purple. Below the wings are
very beautifully marked. There are about seventy species which have
been described, all of them from the American tropics, two of which,
however, come within our borders, _Eunica tatila_, occurring in
Florida, and the following:

[Illustration: PL. XXXVIII]

(1) _Eunica monima_ (Cramer), Plate XXXVIII, Fig. 1, ♂; Fig. 2, ♀ (The
Dingy Purple-wing).

This obscure little butterfly represents its genus in Texas and
Florida, and gives but a faint idea of the beauty of many of its
congeners. It ranges southward and is common in Mexico and the Greater
Antilles. Expanse 1.35-1.50 inch.




GENUS CYSTINEURA BOISDUVAL

(THE BAG-VEINS).


Small, delicate butterflies with elongated fore wings, having the
costal vein much swollen near the base, somewhat as in the _Satyrinæ_.
The upper discocellular is lacking in the fore wing, and the cell is
feebly closed. Outer margin of the hind wing feebly crenulate; cell
open; the two radials spring from a common point.

A number of species and local races have been described.

[Illustration: PL. XXXIX]

(1) _Cystineura amymone_ Ménétries, Plate XXXIX, ♂ (The Texas Bag-vein).

On the under side the gray markings of the upper side are replaced by
yellow, and on the hind wings there is a transverse white band near the
base and an incomplete row of white spots on the limbal area. Expanse
1.50 inch.

Ranges from Kansas southward through Texas into Central America.




GENUS CALLICORE HÜBNER

(THE LEOPARD-SPOTS).


Small butterflies; the upper side of the wings dark in color marked
with bands of metallic blue or silvery green, the lower side more or
less brilliantly colored, the fore wings of some shade of crimson or
yellow, banded near the apex, the hind wings silvery white or some pale
tint, with circular bands of black enclosing round or pear-shaped black
spots.

There are about thirty-five species of the genus thus far known, all of
which are found south of our limits, except the one we figure.

[Illustration: PL. XL]

(1) _Callicore clymena_ Hübner, Plate XL, Fig. 1, ♂, _upper side_; Fig.
2, ♀, _under side_ (The Leopard-spot).

Found in Florida, but though quite common farther south, appears to be
rather local and rare in the peninsula. Expanse 1.75 inch.




GENUS TIMETES BOISDUVAL (THE DAGGER-WINGS).


Medium-sized butterflies. Palpi moderately long, thickly clothed with
scales, the last joint pointed. Fore wing usually somewhat falcate at
apex, deeply excavated on outer margin; hind wing greatly produced at
the end of the third median nervule, the wings being tailed in such a
way as to make them resemble some species of _Papilio_. There is also a
prolongation of the outer margin of the wing between the extremity of
the submedian vein and the first median nervule. On the upper side the
wings are generally dark in color, often marked with transverse bands
and lines; on the lower side they are light in color, with pronounced
darker bands.

Of the thirty species thus far known four occur within our territory,
all of them being found far south.

[Illustration: PL. XLI]

(1) _Timetes coresia_ (Godart), Plate XLI, ♂, _under side_ (The Waiter).

Easily recognized by the figure we give. As I stated in “The Butterfly
Book” it deserves the trivial name I have given it, its black upper
side and the white vest it wears suggesting the functionary who attends
us at table. Expanse 2.50 inches.

Occasionally found in Texas.




GENUS HYPOLIMNAS HÜBNER

(THE TROPIC QUEENS).


Large butterflies, our species being one of the smallest of the genus.
Palpi produced, heavily scaled, rising above the head. Fore wings
excavated on the outer margin; costal and median veins stout; upper
discocellular vein wanting, and lower discocellular feeble or lacking.
Hind wings somewhat crenulate on the outer margin, the cell, which is
relatively quite small, being feebly closed by an attenuated veinlet.

The genus, which is quite large, reaches its greatest development in
the tropics of the Old World, and there is only one species in the
western hemisphere, which may have been introduced in the old days of
the slave trade. Most of the species are mimics and the strange thing
is that the mimicking form is generally the female, which has the color
and markings of some one or other of the milkweed butterflies of the
African and oriental tropics. The female of our species patterns after
the markings of _Danais chrysippus_, a common milkweed butterfly of
Africa. This adaptation of species to the form and color of “protected”
insects is of course not _conscious_. It is the result of a long
evolution in past ages.

[Illustration: PL. XLII]

[Illustration: PL. XLIII]

(1) _Hypolimnas misippus_ (Linnæus), Plate XLII, ♂; Plate XLIII, ♀ (The
Mimic).

Occurs in Florida, the Antilles, and northern South America. While very
abundant in Africa, it seems to be scarce in the New World. The female
differs greatly from the male on the upper side of the wings, but
resembles that sex on the lower side. Expanse ♂, 2.50 inches; ♀ 3.00
inches.




GENUS BASILARCHIA SCUDDER

(THE WHITE ADMIRALS).


Rather large _butterflies_. Fore wings subtriangular, rounded at the
apex, and lightly excavated on the lower two thirds of the outer
margin. Hind wings rounded, somewhat crenulate. _Egg_ nearly spherical
(see Plate C, Fig. _f_) pitted with large hexagonal cells. The
_caterpillar_ in its mature state cylindrical, with the second segment
adorned with two prominent club-shaped tubercles, and the fifth, ninth,
and tenth segments also having raised tubercles (see Plate C, Fig.
_h_). They feed upon oaks, birches, willows, and lindens, preferably
the two latter. The caterpillars after hatching hibernate in little
winter quarters, which they make out of the fragment of a small leaf,
which they tie together with silken threads, and also secure to the
twig by a few strands. The _chrysalis_ has a projecting boss on the
back; the head is either rounded or slightly bifid.

There are a number of species in the United States, several of which
mimic other butterflies in a singular manner, _B. disippus_ closely
resembling _Anosia plexippus_. The caterpillars do not pupate until
summer has come; the butterflies take wing when the lindens bloom.

[Illustration: PL. XLIV]

(1) _Basilarchia astyanax_ (Fabricius), Plate XLIV, ♀ (The Red-spotted
Purple).

Our figure gives a good idea of the upper side of the wings. On the
lower side the wings are brown, banded with black on the margins, the
inner row of marginal spots being red, with two red spots at the base
of the fore wings, and four such spots at the base of the hind wings.
Palpi white below; a white stripe along the sides of the abdomen.
Expanse 3.00-3.25 inches. The egg and caterpillar are shown on Plate C.
The caterpillar is found on a variety of plants, but most commonly on
lindens, willows, and wild cherry trees.

Found all over the United States and Canada, as far west as the Rocky
Mountains, but not in the very hot lowlands of the Gulf region. Is said
to occur on the uplands of Mexico.

Between _B. astyanax_ and the following species, _B. arthemis_, there
is more or less affinity. They represent two lines of evolution from a
common ancestry, and there are evidences of atavic reversion to type
constantly occurring in both forms. They even occasionally interbreed
with each other, and hybrids are not altogether uncommon. The whole
genus in fact is in a more or less plastic state, and well deserves the
careful attention of biologists.

[Illustration: PL. XLV]

(2) _Basilarchia arthemis_ (Drury), Plate XLV, ♂ (The Banded Purple).

Our figure shows the upper side of the form which is most usual.
It will be seen that there are red spots on the hind wings behind
the white band. There is a variety called _proserpina_ in which the
white band becomes very narrow and the red spots almost or entirely
disappear. When the white band and the red spots wholly disappear, as
they sometimes do, it is almost impossible to distinguish this species
from _B. astyanax_. Expanse 2.50-2.75 inches. The egg has “kite-shaped”
cells. The caterpillar feeds on willows, hawthorns, and wild apple and
plum trees.

Found in Canada, New England, and southward in Pennsylvania upon the
higher ranges of the mountains. It is a northern form. It has not thus
far been recorded from the western half of the continent, where it is
replaced by a somewhat similarly marked, but larger, species, known as
_B. Weidemeyeri_. The latter insect is found as far east as western
Nebraska and Colorado. I have taken it very frequently in Wyoming
about Laramie Peak, where it seems to be a common insect in the wooded
canyons.

[Illustration: PL. XLVI]

(3) _Basilarchia disippus_ (Godart), Plate XLVI, ♂; Plate C, Fig. _f_,
egg; Fig. _h_, larva. (The Viceroy).

Mimics _Anosia plexippus_. Range from Canada to the Gulf.

This is one of the most striking cases of mimicry which occurs in our
fauna.

[Illustration: PL. XLVII]

(4) _Basilarchia lorquini_ (Boisduval), Plate XLVII, ♂ (Lorquin’s
Admiral).

Easily distinguished by white bar at end of cell of fore wing and red
spot at apex. Expanse 2.25-2.75 inches.




GENUS ADELPHA HÜBNER (THE SISTERS).


Cell of fore wing lightly closed, of hind wing open; outer margin of
wings rarely excavated. The chrysalids have peculiar forms, having
bifid heads and broad wing-cases; marked with metallic spots on a brown
ground.

There are many species in tropical America, some of which are very
showy; only one occurs within our limits.

[Illustration: PL. XLVIII]

(1) _Adelpha californica_ Butler, Plate XLVIII, ♂ (The Californian
Sister).

The insect, well displayed in our figure, has an expanse of from
2.50-3.00 inches. The caterpillar feeds upon oaks. The range is through
southern California, Nevada, southern Utah, Arizona, and Mexico.




GENUS CHLORIPPE BOISDUVAL

(THE EMPEROR BUTTERFLIES).


Small _butterflies_ generally of some shade of fulvous, with a
submarginal row of eye-like spots on the hind wings, and in a few
species with a similar spot on the fore wings. The apex of the fore
wing is somewhat truncated and the lower two thirds is slightly
excavated. Hind wings somewhat elongated posteriorly at the anal angle.
Outer margins more or less crenulate. _Eggs_ nearly globular, broad
on top, ornamented with eighteen to twenty broad, but low, vertical
ribs, between which are delicate crosslines; laid in clusters. Head of
_caterpillar_ squarish, crowned by two diverging spines on which are
many little spinules. Back of the head there is a frill of spines. Body
thickest at the middle, tapering fore and aft. Hind pair of pro-legs
long and diverging. They feed upon hackberry trees (_Celtis_). The
_chrysalis_ has a very remarkable arrangement of the cremaster, which
is disk-like, studded with hooks; the whole so arranged that the pupa,
when suspended, hangs with the ventral or belly side parallel to the
supporting surface.

There are numerous species in the genus, many of them tropical and very
brilliant, only two commonly occur in the northern portions of our
territory, the others found within our limits being inhabitants of the
Southern States.

[Illustration: PL. XLIX]

(1) _Chlorippe celtis_ Boisduval & Leconte, Plate XLIX, Fig. 1, ♂ (The
Hackberry Butterfly).

Under side grayish purple, with the spots and markings of the upper
side reappearing. Female larger, and, as always is the case in the
genus, with the fore wings not so pointed as in the male, and the
ground-color paler. Expanse ♂, 1.80 inch; ♀, 2.10 inch.

Ranges from New Jersey west and south to the Gulf.

(2) _Chlorippe clyton_ Boisduval & Leconte, Plate XLIX, Fig. 2, ♂ (The
Tawny Emperor).

A larger species than the preceding; tawnier on the upper side of the
wings and lacking the red-ringed eye-spot on the fore wing. Female
much larger than the male, paler in color, with the eye-spots on the
hind wings black and conspicuous. Expanse ♂, 2.00 inches; ♀, 2.50-2.65
inches.

Occurs rather rarely in New England, and extends westward to Michigan,
thence southward to the Gulf of Mexico.

[Illustration: PL. L]

(3) _Chlorippe flora_ Edwards, Plate L, Fig. 1, ♂, _Type_ (The Red
Emperor).

Like _C. clyton_ this species has no red-ringed eye-spot on the fore
wing. The ground-color on the upper side is bright reddish fulvous; the
hind wings are not heavily obscured with brown, as is the case in _C.
clyton_, and the black ocelli stand forth very prominently upon the
lighter ground. The hind wings are more strongly angulated than in
any other North American species, and are solidly bordered with black.
Expanse ♂, 1.75; ♀, 2.35 inches. Ranges from Florida westward along the
borders of the Gulf of Mexico to Texas.

(4) _Chlorippe alicia_ Edwards, Plate L, Fig. 2, ♂, _Type_ (The Buff
Emperor).

Resembles _C. celtis_ in having an ocellus in the fore wing, but it may
at once be distinguished by its larger size in both sexes, the paler
color of the wings on the upper side, which shade from pale fulvous at
the base into light buff outwardly, upon which the eye-spots on the
hind wings show up very prominently. Expanse ♂, 2.00; ♀, 2.50 inches.

The range of this species is the same as that of the preceding.




GENUS HYPANARTIA HÜBNER (THE BANDED REDS).


Medium-sized butterflies. Palpi well clothed with scales, the second
and third joints very nearly of the same size, the latter blunt. Fore
wings square at the apex, slightly excavated about the middle, the
cell being closed by a stout lower discocellular vein, more or less
continuous with the third median nervule. Hind wing strongly produced
at the end of the third median nervule, rounded at the outer angle,
with two short tooth-like projections before the anal angle.

There are less than a dozen species of the genus, most of which are
South American, but there are two in Africa and one in Madagascar. Only
one occurs within the United States, and is confined to the extreme
south.

[Illustration: PL. LI]

(1) _Hypanartia lethe_ (Fabricius), Plate LI, ♂ (The Orange-banded Red).

Occurs as a straggler in our fauna in the extreme southern part of
Texas, but is very abundant farther south. Expanse 2.00 inches.




GENUS SMYRNA HÜBNER


There are only two species of this genus and they closely resemble each
other, so that it is hard to tell them apart. The one which occurs in
our borders has the hind wing rounded at the anal angle, the other, _S.
blomfildi_, has the anal angle of the hind wing squared, with a slight
tail-like prolongation. On the under side both species are marked in
much the same way.

[Illustration: PL. LII]

(1) _Smyrna karwinskii_ Hübner, Plate LII, ♀ (Karwinski’s Beauty).

The insect may be at once recognized by the figure we give. Expanse
3.00-3.25 inches.

It occurs in southern Texas and ranges southward into Brazil.




GENUS CŒA HÜBNER


This is a monotypic genus, that is to say, it contains only one
species. It is therefore not necessary to take up much space in
describing it, because the figure we give will enable the reader at
once to recognize it. It is a very powerful insect on the wing.

[Illustration: PL. LIII]

(1) _Cœa acheronta_ (Fabricius), Plate LIII, ♂ (The Dash-wing).

This lovely insect, which has a certain resemblance to the following
species, is common in the Greater Antilles, Mexico, and Central
America. It occurs about Brownsville, Texas, but is not common there.
Expanse 3.00-3.25 inches.




GENUS AGANISTHOS BOISDUVAL


The genus, like the preceding, is monotypic, and contains but the
one species _A. odius_ (Fabricius). It is so striking and so easily
recognizable by the figure we give on Plate LIV that nothing more need
be said, except that it has a wide range through the American tropics,
being found in southern Florida and Texas, the Greater Antilles, and
from Mexico to southern Brazil. Expanse 3.75-4.00 inches.

[Illustration: PL. LIV]




GENUS PYRRHANÆA SCHATZ


Medium-sized _butterflies_. Front wings falcate at apex; hind wings
tailed at end of third median nervule. Costal margin of fore wing
angulated at base, inner margin straight. Upper side of wings generally
fulvous or red; lower side mottled and marked so as to resemble dried
leaves. _Egg_ spheroid, flattened at base, depressed on top, marked
with a few rows of raised points about summit. _Caterpillar_ with
head globular, first segment behind it much smaller than head; body
cylindrical tapering behind. _Chrysalis_ short, stout, keeled on sides;
cremaster globular at tip, and so arranged as to cause the chrysalis to
hang at a slant.

This is a large genus characteristic of the American tropics. The larvæ
feed on euphorbiaceous and lauraceous plants, after the third moult
making hiding-places for themselves by rolling up leaves and tying
them with silk. There are three species in the United States, two of
which we figure.

[Illustration: PL. LV]

(1) _Pyrrhanæa andria_ (Scudder), Plate LV, ♂ (The Goatweed Butterfly).

Bright red above, margins dusky; on under side gray dusted with brown
scales. Females marked by incomplete pale bands on the limbal area.
Expanse ♂, 2.50; ♀, 3.00 inches. Larva feeds on _Croton capitatum_.
Ranges from Illinois and Nebraska to Texas.

[Illustration: PL. LVI]

(2) _Pyrrhanæa morrisoni_ (Edwards), Plate LVI, ♀ (Morrison’s Goatweed
Butterfly).

More brilliantly and deeply red on upper side than preceding species.
Both male and female have the wings with bands of lighter color on the
limbal area, but these are not solid, as in the female of _P. andria_,
but made up of spots, as shown in the figure. Expanse 2.25-2.50 inches.

Found in Arizona and Mexico.

The genus which is here engaging our attention is one which is
wonderfully well represented in the New World, where it takes the place
of the magnificent insects belonging to the genus _Charaxes_ of the
tropics of the Old World. On the under side they closely mimic dried
leaves. This assimilation to the color of dead leaves is protective.




GENUS AGERONIA HÜBNER (THE CALICOES).


Medium or moderately large-sized butterflies. Costal and subcostal
fused near base; cells of both wings closed. Upper side of wings
curiously marked with checkered spots, generally some shade of blue
with white; under side with broad paler shades: white, yellow, or red.
They are rapid fliers, alight on the trunks of trees head downward,
wings expanded against the bark of the tree. When they fly they make
a clicking sound with their wings. The manner in which this sound is
produced is a mystery. Bates in his _A Naturalist on the Amazons_
writes about it but gives no explanation. In my rambles in tropical
forests I have heard it as the insects gyrated above my head, but I do
not know how the sound is made.

There are about thirty species of the genus in tropical America, two of
which are occasionally found in southern Texas.

[Illustration: PL. LVII]

(1) _Ageronia feronia_ (Linnæus), Plate LVII, ♂ (The White-skirted
Calico).

The ground-color of the under side is broadly white, while that of the
other species in our fauna, _A. fornax_, is yellow. They may thus be
easily told apart.




GENUS VICTORINA BLANCHARD

(THE MALACHITES).


Large butterflies, conspicuously marked with pale green spots
surrounded by darker color. On the under side the wings are paler, and
have a satiny lustre, the edges of the light spots on this side marbled
with brown. Neuration of fore wing singular in that the upper and
lower discocellulars are wanting and the radials seem to spring from
the lower side of the subcostal before the middle; the third median
is strongly bowed upward. Hind wing tailed at end of the third median
nervule.

There are five species of the genus thus far known, all belonging to
the American tropics, one of which occurs in Florida and Texas.

[Illustration: PL. LVIII]

(1) _Victorina steneles_ (Linnæus), Plate LVIII, ♂ (The Pearly
Malachite).

There is no need of an elaborate description of this species, as it is
the only one of its genus in our borders, and the figure we give is
fully recognizable. Expanse 3.50-4.00 inches.




SUBFAMILY SATYRINÆ (THE SATYRS).


_Butterflies_ generally of medium size, obscure in color, their wings,
especially on the under side, ornamented with dark eye-like spots,
pupilled in the centre with a light point and ringed around with one
or more circles of lighter color. They have a weak flight, dancing
about in the herbage and often hiding among grasses and weeds. Most
of them are forest-loving, but some live on the summits of bleak and
cold mountains, others on the verge of arctic snows, and some on the
prairies. Veins of the fore wings generally greatly swollen at the
base, thus enabling them to be distinguished from almost all other
butterflies. _Eggs_ subspherical, somewhat higher than broad, ribbed
on the sides, particularly at the apex, and rounded at the base.
_Caterpillars_, when they emerge from the egg, have their heads much
bigger in diameter than the rest of the body, but as they mature they
lose this feature, and generally taper from the middle of the body in
either direction. Anal pro-legs bifurcating, thus readily distinguished
from all other caterpillars, except those of the genus _Chlorippe_.
They feed upon grasses and sedges, concealing themselves in the daytime
and coming forth to feed at night. _Chrysalids_ short and stout, plain
both in color and outline.

There are about sixty species of _Satyrinæ_ in the region with which
this manual deals, falling into ten genera. We shall only deal with the
commoner species.




GENUS DEBIS WESTWOOD

(THE EYED NYMPHS).


This is a large genus, especially well represented in Asia and the
Indo-Malayan region. Dr. S. H. Scudder set apart the two species we
have in our fauna from the Asiatic forms, under the new name _Enodia_,
but I have never been able to see any good reason for this, and keep
the generic name as it has long stood. The creation of new genera upon
the basis of slight differences is to be deprecated and avoided.

[Illustration: PL. LIX]

(1) _Debis portlandia_ (Fabricius), Plate LIX, ♂ (The Pearly Eye).

The butterfly which is well depicted in our figure has a series of
beautiful ocelli on the under side. There is no great difference
between the sexes. In the Northern States it is single-brooded, in the
South it is double-brooded. Expanse of wing 1.75-2.00 inches.

The caterpillar feeds on grasses. The insect ranges from Maine to the
Gulf, and westward to the Rocky Mountains.

[Illustration: PL. LX]

(2) _Debis creola_ Skinner, Plate LX, ♂ (The Creole).

Easily distinguished from the foregoing by the elongated patches of
dark raised scales upon the fore wings. Expanse 2.25 inches. The
specimen figured is a paratype received from the author of the species.

Ranges from Florida to Mexico along the Gulf.




GENUS SATYRODES SCUDDER

(THE GRASS-NYMPH).


This genus was erected by its author to receive the single species,
which we figure. As there is no likelihood of mistaking it for anything
else, we forego a long generic description.

[Illustration: PL. LXI]

(1) _Satyrodes canthus_ (Boisduval & Leconte), Plate LXI, ♀ (The
Grass-nymph).

The butterfly always haunts meadows and hides among tufts of tall grass
in moist places. It is quite common in New England and Canada, and
is found in the cool regions of the Appalachian uplift as far south
as North Carolina. It has a peculiar jerking flight, and is easily
captured. Expanse 1.65-1.90 inch.

The caterpillar feeds on grasses, and its early stages and
transformations have often been described.




GENUS NEONYMPHA WESTWOOD

(THE SPANGLED-NYMPHS).


Small _butterflies_, rather obscure in color. Both fore and hind wings
evenly rounded; the fore wings with the costal and median veins much
swollen at the base. Antennæ short without a distinctly defined club.
_Egg_ globular marked with polygonal cells. _Caterpillar_ with a large
head, bifid above, and produced as two cones thickly studded with
little raised projections. _Chrysalis_ comparatively long, pointed at
the head, with a blunt tubercle on the thorax; green.

Some writers maintain that this genus is identical with the genus
_Euptychia_ Hübner, which contains over one hundred species,
principally found in the American tropics. Seven species are found in
our region, of which we shall delineate five.

[Illustration: PL. LXII]

(1) _Neonympha gemma_ (Hübner), Plate LXII, Fig. 1, ♂, _under side_
(The Gemmed Brown).

The upper side of the wings are mouse-colored, with a couple of twinned
dark spots on the outer margin of the hind wings. On the under side the
wings are reddish gray, marked with irregular rusty lines, and at the
point where the dark spots appear upon the upper side there is a row of
silvery spots. Expanse 1.25-1.35 inch.

Ranges from West Virginia to Mexico.


(2) _Neonympha phocion_ (Fabricius), Plate LXII, Fig. 2, ♀ (The
Georgian Satyr).

A trifle larger than the preceding species, which it closely resembles
above, but from which it may at once be distinguished by the form of
the markings of the lower side of the hind wings, which are depicted in
our illustration. Expanse 1.25-1.45 inch.

Ranges from southern New Jersey to the Gulf as far west as Texas. Very
common in Georgia.

[Illustration: PL. LXIII]

(3) _Neonympha eurytus_ (Fabricius), Plate LXIII, ♂ (The Little
Wood-satyr).

Readily distinguished from the other species in our fauna by the two
well-developed eye-spots on the fore wings, as well as on the hind
wings on the upper side. Expanse 1.75 inch.

The caterpillar and chrysalis are pale brown, the latter marked with
darker brown.

Ranges from New England and Ontario to Georgia and westward to Kansas
and Texas.

[Illustration: PL. LXIV]

(4) _Neonympha sosybius_ (Fabricius), Plate LXIV, Fig. 1, ♂ (The
Carolinian Satyr).

Upper side unspotted dark mouse-gray. On the under side the wings are
paler, crossed by three lines, one defining the basal, the second the
median area, and the third just before the outer margin. Between the
last two are rows of ocelli, which are obscure, except the first on
the fore wing and the second and last two on the hind wing. Expanse
1.25-1.50 inch.

Ranges from the latitude of New Jersey southward through the lower
half of the Mississippi Valley to Mexico and Central America.

(5) _Neonympha rubricata_ Edwards, Plate LXIV, Fig. 2, ♂. _Type_ (The
Red Satyr).

Most nearly related to _N. sosybius_, but readily distinguished by its
much redder color, and by having but one eye-spot on the upper side of
the fore wing. Expanse 1.40-1.75 inch.

Found in Texas, Arizona, Mexico, and Central America.




GENUS CŒNONYMPHA WESTWOOD

(THE RINGLETS).


Small _butterflies_. Costal, median, and submedian veins of fore wing
strongly swollen at base. Both wings evenly rounded on outer margin.
_Egg_ conical, rounded at the bottom, truncated, with low ribs and
cross-lines near the top. The _caterpillar_ has a globular head and
cylindrical body, which tapers backward from about the middle, and on
the last segment has two cone-like backward projections. _Chrysalis_
straight ventrally, convex dorsally, with a rounded keeled eminence
over the thorax, pointed at the end; green or drab, marked with darker
spots.

The genus is found throughout the north temperate zone, and we have in
our fauna a number of species and varieties, most of which are confined
to the Pacific Coast and to Alaska.

[Illustration: PL. LXV]

(1) _Cœnonympha ochracea_ Edwards, Plate LXV, Fig. 1, ♂ (The Ochre
Ringlet).

Glossy ochreous yellow above, without dark markings except as those
of lower side faintly show through. On under side the fore wing has
an eye-spot near apex, and the hind wing has a submarginal row of
incomplete eye-spots, which in some specimens is wanting. Ground-color
of under side of fore wings as above; of hind wings gray, interrupted
about middle by a lighter band, and lighter rays about the cell near
base. Expanse 1.25-1.50 inch. Ranges from British Columbia to Arizona
eastward to Kansas and Nebraska.

(2) _Cœnonympha inornata_ Edwards, Plate LXV, Fig. 2, ♂ (The Plain
Ringlet).

Reddish ochraceous on upper side with outer margin of fore wings and
hind wings laved with darker. On the under side there is an ocellus
near the apex of fore wing and on the hind wing, which is dark gray, a
yellow curved mark beyond the cell and a couple of pale yellow spots
near the anal angle. Expanse 1.25-1.50 inch.

Occurs in Montana, Minnesota, Ontario north of Lake Superior, thence
eastward to Newfoundland.




GENUS EREBIA DALMAN (THE ALPINES).

Rather small _butterflies_, dark in color, with eye-spots on the wings,
most numerous on the under side. Veins of fore wing thickened at base;
lower radial in some cases projected inwardly into the cell at point of
origin. Outer margin of both wings evenly rounded. _Egg_ subconical,
ribbed, the ribs often intersecting each other. _Larva_ with globular
head, body tapering backward, last segment bifurcate. _Chrysalis_
convex dorsally and ventrally, humped on thorax, produced at head,
light brown or ashen gray.

The genus is arctic and confined to the far north, or to the summits of
high mountains, which have an arctic climate. There are many species in
the northern hemisphere, of which we select two for representation.

[Illustration: PL. LXVI]

(1) _Erebia discoidalis_ Kirby, Plate LXVI, Fig. 1, ♂ (The Red-streaked
Alpine).

Easily distinguished from all other species in our fauna by the plain
dark wings streaked on the costa and suffused over the outer three
fourths of the middle of the fore wings with dark red or maroon.
Expanse 1.75-2.00 inches.

_Habitat_ region of Hudson Bay, thence westward to Alaska and southward
among snowy peaks of British Columbia. Probably found on high mountains
of Idaho and Montana.

(2) _Erebia epipsodea_ Butler, Plate LXVI, Fig. 2, ♂ (The Common
Alpine).

The upper side is shown in our cut; the under side repeats the markings
of the upper side more or less clearly, and besides has on the hind
wing a broad, curved, median, blackish band. Expanse 1.75-2.10 inches.

Ranges from the alpine summits of New Mexico northward at suitable
elevations to Alaska, where it is common.




GENUS GYROCHEILUS BUTLER

(THE BLACKAMOORS).


Medium-sized _butterflies_, very dark in color, with eye-spots on fore
wings, and hind wings bordered with brown. There is only one species
found in our region, and a detailed account of its structure may
therefore be spared.

[Illustration: PL. LXVII]

(1) _Gyrocheilus tritonia_ Edwards, Plate LXVII, ♂ (The Arizona
Blackamoor).

Upper side shown in our figure. The under side is much the same, except
that the submarginal band is purplish red sprinkled with white and dark
brown scales, and has on the inner side a row of imperfectly developed
eye-spots partially ringed about on the side of the base by yellow.
Expanse 2.25-2.50 inches.

Occurs in southern Arizona and northern Mexico.




GENUS NEOMINOIS SCUDDER


For a detailed account of the structure and metamorphoses of these
insects the reader is referred to “The Butterfly Book.” There are only
two species found in our territory and we give figures of the upper
side of both of them, so that the student will be able to recognize
them when he gets them.

[Illustration: PL. LXVIII]

(1) _Neominois ridingsi_ (Edwards), Plate LXVIII, Fig. 1, ♂. _Type_
(Ridings’ Satyr).

The upper side is well shown in our figure. The under side is paler
than the upper, and the basal and mesial areas are mottled with narrow
pale brown streaks, while the hind wing is crossed about the middle by
a dark band, the outer margin of which is sharply indented. Expanse
1.50 inch. Larva pupates under ground.

Inhabits the mountain states of the Pacific Coast.

(2) _Neominois dionysius_ Scudder, Plate LXVIII, Fig. 2, ♂ (Scudder’s
Satyr).

On the under side the mesial band of the hind wings is narrower and
more irregularly curved than in the preceding species and the outer
indentations are more strongly produced. Expanse 1.00 inch. Occurs in
Colorado, Utah, and Arizona.




GENUS SATYRUS WESTWOOD (THE WOOD-NYMPHS).


Medium-sized or small _butterflies_. Wings marked with eye-spots,
or ocelli. On upper side generally very obscurely colored with some
shade of gray or brown, occasionally marked by yellow bands; under
side frequently beautifully streaked and spotted, with the ocelli more
prominent than on the upper side. The veins of the fore wing are much
swollen at the base. The outer margin of the fore wing is evenly
rounded, that of the hind wing somewhat scalloped. _Egg_ barrel-shaped,
truncated on top, ribbed on the sides, the ribs at the top connected
by a waved, raised elevation. _Caterpillar_ with globular head,
cylindrical body, tapering both ways from the middle, and furnished
with diverging anal horns. _Chrysalis_ in form like those of many of
the genera belonging to this subfamily; green in color. The genus is
quite large, and many of the species are very variable.

[Illustration: PL. LXIX]

(1) _Satyrus pegala_ (Fabricius), Plate LXIX, ♀, _under side_ (The
Southern Wood-nymph).

Easily recognized by its large size, it being the largest species in
our fauna, and by the broad subterminal yellow band on the fore wing
marked in the male by one eye-spot, and in the female by two such
spots. Expanse 2.75-3.00 inches.

Common in the Gulf States and occasionally occurring as far north as
New Jersey.

[Illustration: PL. LXX]

(2) _Satyrus alope_ (Fabricius), Plate LXX, ♀ (The Common Wood-nymph).

Closely resembling the preceding species, but only two thirds its
size. The number of the ocelli is not constant, and some specimens
lack them entirely. This is the form which is common on the Atlantic
seaboard from New Jersey to New Hampshire, and westward to the
Mississippi. Expanse 1.75-2.25 inches.

[Illustration: PL. LXXI]

(3) _Satyrus alope_ form _nephele_ Kirby, Plate LXXI, Fig. 1, ♂ (The
Clouded Wood-nymph).

This form, long held to be a valid species, has been ascertained
by breeding to be a dimorphic variety characterized by the partial
or entire suppression of the yellow band on the fore wings and the
tendency of the eye-spots to disappear. It is a northern form, and is
common in Canada, northern New England, and in corresponding latitudes
from the Atlantic to the Pacific. Expanse 1.85-2.25 inches.


(4) _Satyrus paulus_ Edwards, Plate LXXI, Fig. 2, ♂, _Type, under side_
(The Small Wood-nymph).

Somewhat smaller than _S. nephele_. Upper side dark brown in both
sexes; fore wings always with two ocelli, one near apex, the other
near inner angle; hind wing with two ocelli near anal angle. Expanse
1.75-2.00 inches.

Occurs in California and Nevada.

[Illustration: PL. LXXII]

(5) _Satyrus meadi_ Edwards, Plate LXXII, Fig. 1, ♂ (Mead’s Satyr).

Readily distinguished from all others by the bright red on the limbal
area above and below. Expanse 1.60-1.75 inch.

Ranges from Arizona to Montana in the region of the Rocky Mountains.

[Illustration: PL. LXXIII]

(6) _Satyrus charon_ Edwards, Plate LXXIII, Fig. 1, ♂, _Type_ (The Dark
Wood-nymph).

The _type_ of the species is darker on the under side of the wings than
many specimens in the possession of the writer; the under side is in
fact somewhat variable. There may or may not be ocelli on the under
side. Mr. Edwards named the form without ocelli _Satyrus silvestris_,
but this form is doubtlessly a good species. Both fore and hind wings
on the under side are marked abundantly and evenly by little streaks
darker in color than the ground, and are crossed on either side of the
median area by dark lines, which sometimes are wanting, and are quite
variable. Expanse 1.50-1.75 inch.

Ranges from British Columbia to New Mexico, and appears to be common,
wherever it occurs.

(7) _Satyrus sthenele_ Boisduval, Plate LXXIII, Fig. 2, ♂, _under side_
(The Least Wood-nymph).

Quite small, on the upper side resembling _S. charon_, but very
different on the under side. The distinguishing mark of the species is
the dark, twice-strangulated band of the hind wings, bordered outwardly
on either side by lighter shades. This is shown in our figure. Expanse
1.40-1.50 inch.

Found in California.




GENUS PARAMECERA BUTLER


There is only one species in this genus thus far known. The insect
closely resembles those of the genus _Satyrus_, but may readily be
told apart by the patch of heavy, dark, raised scales in the region
of the median nervules of the fore wing. On the under side the insect
is paler, ruddy, and the fore wings have a large pupilled eye-spot,
followed by a blind, much smaller eye-spot at the apex. The hind wing
has a pale mesial band bordered by darker lines and a submarginal row
of eye-spots.

(1) _Paramecera xicaque_ (Reakirt), Plate LXXII, Fig. 2, ♂ (Reakirt’s
Satyr).

The insect has an expanse of wing varying from 1.35-1.75 inch. It is
not uncommon in southern Arizona and northern Mexico.




GENUS ŒNEIS HÜBNER (THE ARCTICS).


Medium-sized _butterflies_, above some shade of light or dark brown;
below marbled and mottled, often with a dark median band crossing both
wings. The fringes are brown checkered with white. They live in the
cold north or on the tops of high mountains. One of the best-known
species is the White Mountain Butterfly, _O. semidea_, which exists
on the summit of Mt. Washington, New Hampshire. The _eggs_ are
ovate-spheroid, ribbed, and are laid on dry grasses near the spot where
grass will grow in the following spring. The _caterpillars_, when
mature, are cylindrical, tapering from the middle both ways, pale green
or brown, with darker longitudinal stripes, feeding on grasses. The
_chrysalids_ are stout, a little angulated, and are formed, unattached,
under stones or at the roots of grass in a slight depression where the
caterpillar has deposited a few threads of silk.

There are a score or more of species in our fauna, of which most occur
on the tops of high northern mountains or near the Arctic Circle.

[Illustration: PL. LXXIV]

(1) _Œneis jutta_ (Hübner), Plate LXXIV, Fig. 1, ♂; Fig. 2, ♀ (The Nova
Scotian).

This species, found also in Europe, is one of the most conspicuous of
its tribe. It is not uncommon in the State of Maine, ranging northward
from Bangor through Nova Scotia, thence westward to Ottawa and the
Hudson Bay country. Expanse 1.80-2.10 inches.

[Illustration: PL. LXXV]

(2) _Œneis semidea_ (Say), Plate LXXV, Fig. 1, ♀ (The White Mountain
Butterfly).

The wings are very thin and semi-translucent. Restricted to the summit
of Mount Washington, New Hampshire, and some of the alpine peaks in
the Rocky Mountains. It is also found in Labrador, and no doubt in
corresponding latitudes about Hudson Bay and westward. Expanse 1.75
inch.

(3) _Œneis katahdin_ Newcomb, Plate LXXV, Fig. 2, ♂ (The Katahdin
Butterfly).

Closely allied to the preceding species, from which it may be
distinguished by its paler wings and the irregular dark band on the
under side of the hind wings about their middle. Expanse 1.75 inch.

This insect in recent years has been found to inhabit the summit of
Mount Katahdin in Maine.

[Illustration: PL. LXXVI]

(4) _Œneis macouni_ (Edwards), Plate LXXVI, ♂. _Type_ (Macoun’s Arctic).

More like _O. jutta_ in the form of the wings, but differs in
coloration. It belongs to a group of species included in this genus,
most of which are found in the region of the Rocky Mountains, which
are larger and yellower on the upper side of the wings than the two
preceding species. Expanse 2.00-2.25 inches.

Not uncommon about Lake Nipigon, north of Lake Superior.




SUBFAMILY LIBYTHEINÆ (THE SNOUT-BUTTERFLIES).


These insects may readily be distinguished from all others by their
long projecting palpi, and by the fact that the males have only four
feet adapted to walking while the females have six, a fact which seems
to ally them to the _Erycinidæ_. On the other hand, the chrysalis is
pendent as in the _Nymphalidæ_. There is but one genus of the group
represented in our faunal region.




GENUS LIBYTHEA FABRICIUS (THE SNOUT-BUTTERFLIES).


Small _butterflies_, the palpi enormously produced in comparison with
other butterflies. The fore wings are strongly excavated on the outer
margin, and produced at the end of the lower radial. The hind wing is
upwardly lobed at the base, excised before the outer angle, and the
outer margin is somewhat scalloped. The _egg_ is ovoid, nearly twice as
high as wide, ribbed, every other rib being higher than the one beside
it and increasing in height toward the top. The _caterpillar_ has a
small head, overarched by the anterior swollen segments; it lives upon
the hackberry (_Celtis_). The _chrysalis_ has the abdomen conical, the
head pointed, with two raised ridges running from the head on either
side to the middle of the first segment of the abdomen; between these
ridges is a low tubercle.

There are numerous species found in all parts of the world, but only
three occur within our limits. Of these we figure the one which is most
widely distributed.

[Illustration: PL. LXXVII]

(1) _Libythea bachmani_ Kirtland, Plate LXXVII, ♂ (The Common
Snout-butterfly).

The figure we give will enable the student to immediately recognize the
insect.

It ranges from New England and Ontario southward and westward over the
whole country as far as Arizona and northern Mexico.




FAMILY ERYCINIDÆ (THE METAL-MARKS).


This is a great family of small or rather less than medium-sized
butterflies, which is found in both the eastern and western
hemispheres, but is mostly confined to the American tropics, where
there are known to be about a thousand species, some of them remarkably
beautiful in their colors and markings. The males have the fore legs
aborted as in the case of the _Nymphalidæ_, while the females have
six legs for walking. In this respect they resemble the _Lycænidæ_.
The chrysalids are not pendent as are those of all the insects which
we have hitherto described in this book, but are held in place by a
silken girdle, and are closely appressed to the supporting surface. The
strongest mark of distinction from other butterflies is the fact that
the precostal vein of the hind wing is located on the extreme inner
margin of the wing and sends out a little free hook, very much as is
the case in many of the moths. The antennæ are very long and slender,
distinctly knobbed at the end. Many genera have the peculiarity when
alighting of not folding their wings, but carrying them flat, and they
have also the habit of hiding under leaves, like moths. Most of the
species found in our region occur in the Southwestern States, two alone
are found in the Eastern States.




GENUS CHARIS HÜBNER (THE METAL-MARKS).


There are nearly fifty species of this genus found in the American
tropics. There are but two species in the eastern parts of the United
States, and two others in California. The figures we give will enable
any one to tell apart the two species found in the Atlantic region.

[Illustration: PL. LXXVIII]

(1) _Charis cænius_ (Linnæus), Plate LXXVIII, Fig. 3, ♂ (The Little
Metal-mark).

Very small, brighter red on the under side than on upper. Wings both
above and below spotted with small steely-blue metallic markings.
Common in Florida, ranging northward to Virginia and westward to Texas.
Expanse 0.75 inch.

(2) _Charis borealis_ (Grote & Robinson), Plate LXXVIII, Fig. 4, ♂ (The
Northern Metal-mark).

Larger than the preceding species. Upper side sooty brown marked with
blacker spots and a marginal and submarginal row of coppery red spots.
On the under side the wings are light red with a multitude of small
black spots arranged in transverse rows. The metallic spots of the
upper side reappear below. Expanse 1.15 inch.

Range from New York to Illinois and Michigan and south to the
Carolinas. Rare.




GENUS APODEMIA FELDER (THE MORMONS).


There are about ten species of this genus confined mainly to the
Southwestern States and northern Mexico. Some, like the one we figure,
are quite small, others are larger, spreading as much as 1.50 inch.
They are rather gayly colored, usually with the wings on the upper side
checkered or spotted with red, black, and white, and lighter on the
under side. None of them have metallic markings on either side.

(1) _Apodemia palmeri_ (Edwards), Plate LXXVIII, Fig. 2, ♂ (Palmer’s
Mormon).

One of the smallest species of the genus, mouse-gray, spotted with
white above; on the under side whitish gray, laved with pale red at
the base of the fore wings, the spots of the upper side reappearing on
this side. Expanse 0.75-0.95 inch.

Ranges from Utah to Mexico.




GENUS POLYSTIGMA SALVIN & GODMAN


There is thus far but one species known to belong to this genus,
which is marked off from all others by the fact that the males have
normally developed fore legs as well as the females, and thus are the
“exception” in the family, “which proves the rule.”

(1) _Polystigma nais_ (Edwards), Plate LXXVIII, Fig. 1, ♂, _Type_ (The
Many-spot).

The lower side of the wings is pale red mottled with buff on the hind
wings; the marks of the upper side reappear below and stand out boldly
upon the paler ground. Expanse 1.00-1.25 inch.

_P. nais_ occurs from Colorado to Mexico, east of the Rocky Mountains.




FAMILY LYCÆNIDÆ (THE HAIR-STREAKS, COPPERS, AND BLUES).


Small _butterflies_. The males have the first pair of legs more or less
aborted, and not adapted to walking. Many of the genera are brilliantly
blue on the upper side of the wings, others are coppery red. In Africa
there are numerous genera which mimic other butterflies in the form and
color of their wings. The _eggs_ are turban-shaped adorned with ridges,
minute eminences, and networks of raised lines. Under the microscope
some of them look like sea-urchins after the spines have fallen off.
The _caterpillars_ are slug-shaped, flat; and while most of them feed
on vegetable matter a few feed on scale-insects and aphids, and some
on the larvæ of ants. The latter are African and Oriental forms. The
_chrysalids_ are attached to the place where the caterpillar has
pupated by a cincture or girdle.

The family is very large and is represented in all parts of the world,
but there are probably more species in the American tropics than in any
other quarter of the globe, unless it be in the Malaysian Archipelago
and New Guinea, from which a host of species have been described in
recent years.

A multitude of refinements in classification have been invented by
recent authors and a lot of generic names have been proposed which in
this book we shall in part ignore, as they are based upon such slight
points that nobody but a man armed with a big microscope can make them
out. They puzzle common people, and this book is for laymen and not for
the supertechnical.




GENUS EUMÆUS HÜBNER (THE BLUE-SPOTS).


Medium-sized or small. Dark in color, with the borders on the upper and
lower sides and the hind wings below beautifully adorned with spots
of metallic blue or green. There are three species in the genus, two
of which occur in our territory, _E. atala_, which we figure, and _E.
minyas_, which may be distinguished from the former by its larger size.

[Illustration: PL. LXXIX]

(1) _Eumæus atala_ (Poey), Plate LXXIX, Fig. 1, ♂, _under side_ (The
Florida Blue-spot).

The figure accurately represents the lower side of this charming
insect. Expanse 1.65-1.75 inch.

It is common in southern Florida and Cuba. The other species, _E.
minyas_, which is much larger and equally beautifully marked, is found
in southern Texas and thence ranges southward into Brazil.




GENUS THECLA FABRICIUS (THE HAIR-STREAKS).


Mostly small _butterflies_. On the upper side very often colored with
iridescent blue, green, or purple, sometimes reddish or dark brown; on
the under side marked with lines and spots variously arranged and often
very strikingly colored. What has been said as to the _eggs_, _larvæ_,
and _chrysalids_ of the family apply as well to this as to many of the
following genera, and need not be here repeated.

While students of this group have subdivided extensively, and with
scientific propriety have erected a number of genera which are
acceptable to specialists, there seems to the writer no need for going
into these things in this book, as most of the distinctions drawn are
too fine to be appreciated by any but specialists.

(1) _Thecla halesus_ (Cramer), Plate LXXIX, ♂ (The Great Purple
Hair-streak).

The upper side is deep purplish blue, as shown in our figure; on
the lower side the thorax is black spotted with white, the abdomen
orange-red; the wings warm sepia spotted with crimson at their bases,
in the males glossed with a stripe of metallic green on the fore wings,
and in both sexes adorned at the anal angle by spots of metallic green,
red, and iridescent blue. Expanse 1.35-1.50 inch.

Common in Central America and Mexico, ranging north through the hotter
parts of the Gulf States, and has been recorded from southern Illinois.
Occurs in southern California and Arizona. The larva feeds on mistletoe.

[Illustration: PL. LXXX]

(2) _Thecla m-album_ Boisduval & Leconte, Plate LXXX, Fig. 1, ♂ (The
White-M Hair-streak).

Smaller than the preceding species, bluer, and not inclined to greenish
at base of wings on upper side; on under side fore wing crossed by a
submarginal and a median line of white, continued on the hind wings,
zigzagged at anal angle so as to look like an inverted M; near this is
a rounded crimson patch; anal angle black glossed with blue. Expanse
1.35-1.45 inch.

Ranges from New Jersey and Wisconsin to Venezuela.

(3) _Thecla crysalus_ Edwards, Plate LXXX, Fig. 2, ♂ (The Colorado
Hair-streak).

Upper side as in our figure, under side marked with white lines edged
with brown. Orange spots of upper side reappear below, but at anal
angle are transformed into red eye-spots pupilled with black and
margined with metallic green. Expanse 1.50 inch.

Ranges from Colorado to eastern Arizona.

[Illustration: PL. LXXXI]

(4) _Thecla favonius_ Smith & Abbot, Plate LXXXI, Fig. 1, ♂ (The
Southern Hair-streak).

On the under side the wings are marked much as in _T. m-album_, but in
the region of the median nervules is a rather broad transverse carmine
streak inwardly edged with dark lines. Expanse 1.00-1.15 inch.

Found in the Gulf States and as far north as South Carolina.

(5) _Thecla wittfeldi_ Edwards, Plate LXXXI, Fig. 2, ♀, _Type_
(Wittfeld’s Hair-streak).

On the lower side both wings are crossed beyond the middle by two
parallel pale lines bordered with darker tints, and at the end of the
cells have each a short whitish bar. The anal angle is adorned with
blue scales, before which is a red eye-spot of large size, externally
marked with black. Expanse 1.25-1.35 inch.

Found in the region of Indian River, Florida.

[Illustration: PL. LXXXII]

(6) _Thecla autolycus_ Edwards, Plate LXXXII, Fig. 1, ♂ (The Texas
Hair-streak).

The carmine spots on the under side of the wings are not arranged
across the median nervules as in _T. favonius_, but are located in the
vicinity of the anal angle crowning the black crescents near the inner
end of the outer margin. Expanse 1.15-1.30 inch.

Ranges from Missouri and Kansas to Texas.

(7) _Thecla melinus_ Hübner, Plate LXXXII, Fig. 2, ♀ (The Common
Hair-streak).

This common little butterfly may easily be recognized by its plain
slaty upper surface, marked by a large black spot crowned with
crimson between the origin of the two tails on the hind wings. Expanse
1.10-1.20 inch.

The caterpillar feeds on hop vines. The insect is found throughout
temperate North America, thence southward into Mexico and Central
America on the highlands.

[Illustration: PL. LXXXIII]

(8) _Thecla grunus_ Boisduval, Plate LXXXIII, Fig. 1, ♂ (Boisduval’s
Hair-streak).

Wings on the upper side are as shown in our figure, but tawnier. On
the under side the wings are pale tawny with transverse marginal and
submarginal rows of small dark spots on both wings. Two or three of the
marginal spots near the anal angle are conspicuously black crowned with
a metallic green crescent. Expanse 1.10-1.20 inch.

The larva feeds upon the leaves of the live-oak (_Quercus
chrysolepis_). Found in California and Nevada.

(9) _Thecla edwardsi_ Saunders, Plate LXXXIII, Fig. 2, ♂ _under side_
(Edwards’ Hair-streak).

Our figure shows the under side; on the upper side the wings are dark
brown glossed with plumbeous, with a pale sex-mark on the fore wing of
the male near the costa. Expanse 1.15 inch.

The caterpillar feeds upon the young leaves of various kinds of oak.
The species ranges from Quebec westward to Colorado and is not uncommon
in New England, New York, and western Pennsylvania.

(10) _Thecla acadica_ Edwards, Plate LXXXIII, Fig. 3, ♂ (The Acadian
Hair-streak).

The wings on the under side are pale wood-brown, with a black bar at
the end of the cells, and submarginal and median bands of small black
spots surrounded with white; on the hind wings there is a submarginal
row of red crescents, growing smaller from the anal angle toward the
outer angle. Near the anal angle are two conspicuous black spots
separated by a broad patch of bluish green scales. Expanse 1.15-1.25
inch.

The caterpillar feeds upon willows. The insect ranges from Quebec to
Vancouver Island.

[Illustration: PL. LXXXIV]

(11) _Thecla calanus_ Hübner, Plate LXXXIV, Fig. 1, ♂ (The Banded
Hair-streak).

On the upper side resembling _T. edwardsi_, but warmer brown in color;
on the under side wings are marked by fine white lines on the outer
half, which are not broken as in _T. edwardsi_, but form continuous
bands. Expanse 1.15 inch.

The larva feeds on oaks. The insect ranges from Quebec to Colorado and
Texas, and is common in western Pennsylvania.

(12) _Thecla liparops_ Boisduval & Leconte, Plate LXXXIV, Fig. 2, ♀,
_under side_ (The Striped Hair-streak).

Dark brown on the upper side. On the under side the lines are arranged
much as in _T. edwardsi_, but farther apart, quite narrow, and scarcely
defining the darker bands between them. The spots at the anal angle are
obscure and blackish. Expanse 1.15 inch.

The larva feeds on oaks, willows, wild plum, and many other plants. The
insect ranges from Quebec through the northern Atlantic States as far
west as Montana and Colorado, but is never common.

[Illustration: PL. LXXXV]

(13) _Thecla damon_ (Cramer), Plate LXXXV, Fig. 2, ♂, _under side_;
var. _discoidalis_ Skinner, Plate LXXXV, Fig. 1, ♂, _upper side_ (Olive
Hair-streak).

In our plate we have given in Fig. 1 a representation of the upper side
of the form called _discoidalis_, which in the central part of the
fore wing is broadly marked with reddish fulvous. In Fig. 2 we have a
representation of the under side of typical _T. damon_. With the help
of these figures the student may recognize both forms of the species.

The caterpillar feeds on the red cedar (_Juniperus virginiana_). It
is double-brooded in the North and triple-brooded in the South. The
species ranges from Ontario to Texas over the whole eastern half of the
United States.

(14) _Thecla simæthis_ (Drury), Plate LXXXV, Fig. 3, ♂ _under side_
(The Brown-margined Hair-streak).

Closely resembling in many respects the preceding species, especially
on the upper side, but the white band on the hind wings is straight and
the outer margins are heavily marked with bright reddish brown. Expanse
0.85-1.00 inch.

This pretty species ranges from Texas well into South America.

(15) _Thecla augustus_ Kirby, Plate LXXXV, Fig. 4, ♀ (The Brown Elfin).

Brown above, paler below. The fore wings on the lower side are marked
by a straight incomplete median band; the hind wings by an irregular
curved median band. Back of these lines toward the base both wings are
darker brown. Expanse 0.90 inch.

The insect is found in New England, thence northward and westward into
the British possessions.

[Illustration: PL. LXXXVI]

(16) _Thecla niphon_ (Hübner), Plate LXXXVI, Fig. 1, ♀, _under side_
(The Banded Elfin).

Our cut gives an excellent idea of the markings of the under side. On
the upper side the insect is plain reddish brown. Expanse 1.10 inch.

The caterpillars feed upon pines. The insect ranges from Nova Scotia to
Colorado in the Northern States, and is only found in pine woods, but
is never very abundant.

(17) _Thecla irus_ (Godart), Plate LXXXVI, Fig. 2, ♂ (The Hoary Elfin).

Grayish brown on the upper side, on the under side of the same color,
but paler on the outer margins and darker toward the base; small
crescents appear on the outer margins of the hind wings below, or they
may be absent. Expanse 1.10 inch.

The larva feeds on young wild plums just after the petals of the
flower have dropped away. The species ranges from the Atlantic to the
Pacific in the latitude of New England.

(18) _Thecla henrici_ Grote & Robinson, Plate LXXXVI, Fig. 3, ♀
(Henry’s Hair-streak).

Very much like the preceding species, but with the outer half of the
wings laved with reddish brown. The hind wings on the under side are
blackish brown; on the basal half of the outer margin paler, the
division between the dark and light shades being irregular and sharply
defined. Expanse 1.00-1.10 inch.

This species, like the preceding, feeds on young plums. It ranges from
Maine to West Virginia, and is not very common.

(19) _Thecla læta_ Edwards, Plate LXXXVI, Fig. 4, ♂ (Early Hair-streak).

Wings brown glossed with bright blue on the upper side; on the under
side pale fawn, with a band of pale red spots on both wings about the
middle, and a few similar spots on the outer and inner margins of the
hind wings. Expanse 0.75-0.85 inch.

The species ranges from Quebec to southern New Jersey and westward
and southward to West Virginia and Arizona. It is a rare species, and
appears in the early spring.

[Illustration: PL. LXXXVII]

(20) _Thecla dumetorum_ Boisduval, Plate LXXXVII, Fig. 1, ♂, _under
side_ (The Green White-spotted Hair-streak).

Dark fawn above; on the outer third of the wings often shaded with
reddish; on the under side both wings are green, the fore wings with
a short band of white spots on the outer third; the hind wings with a
white spot on the costa beyond the middle and two or three conspicuous
white spots near the anal angle. Expanse 1.10 inch.

The eggs are laid on the buds of _Hosackia argophylla_. The insect
ranges from Oregon and California eastward as far as Colorado.

(21) _Thecla behri_ Edwards, Plate LXXXVII, Fig. 2, ♂, _under side_
(Behr’s Hair-streak).

On the upper side the wings are broadly reddish fulvous on the disk,
with the costa and outer margins of both wings broadly dark brown or
black. The under side is accurately shown in our cut, and therefore
needs no description. Expanse 1.10 inch.

This species is also found in Oregon and California, and ranges as far
east as Colorado.

(22) _Thecla titus_ (Fabricius), Plate LXXXVII, Fig. 3, ♂, _under side_
(The Coral Hair-streak).

On the upper side uniformly gray-brown, although occasionally specimens
of the female sex have a few red spots on the hind wing at the anal
angle. On the under side the hind wings have a conspicuous submarginal
band of coral-red spots, as shown in our cut. Expanse 1.30 inch.

The caterpillar feeds on the leaves of the wild cherry and wild plum.
The insect ranges from the Atlantic to the Rocky Mountains and from
Maine to the latitude of northern Georgia.

(23) _Thecla clytie_ Edwards, Plate LXXXVII, Fig. 4, ♂ (Clytie).

The upper side of this pretty little insect is well delineated in our
figure. On the lower side the wings are white, with the usual marginal
and transverse markings quite small and faint. Expanse .90 inch. The
species occurs in Texas, Arizona, and northern Mexico.




GENUS FENISECA GROTE (THE HARVESTER).


Small, bright orange-yellow on the upper side, the costal and outer
margin of the fore wings and the basal half of the hind wings dark
brown. On the under side more or less mottled with gray and brown, the
markings of the upper side reappearing. _Egg_ sub-globular, much wider
than high, marked with a multitude of fine and indistinct raised ridges
disposed in the form of polygonal cells. _Caterpillar_ slug-shaped,
covered with bristling spines, upon which it gathers the scales of the
mealy bugs upon which it feeds. _Chrysalis_ brown in color, showing a
remarkable likeness to the face of a monkey, a phenomenon which also
appears in the case of its allies of the genus _Spalgis_ found in
Africa and Asia, as the writer has pointed out.

Only one species of the genus is known.

[Illustration: PL. LXXXVIII]

(1) _Feniseca tarquinius_ (Fabricius), Plate LXXXVIII, Fig. 1, ♂ (The
Harvester).

There is considerable variation in the size of the dark markings on the
upper side of the wings, and in some specimens they almost entirely
disappear. Expanse 1.30 inch. Ranges from Nova Scotia to the Carolinas,
and through Mississippi valley.




GENUS CHRYSOPHANUS DOUBLEDAY (THE COPPERS).


Small _butterflies_ with the upper side of the wings some shade of
coppery red or orange, often glossed with deep purple. On the under
side the wings are marked with a multitude of spots and lines. _Egg_
hemispherical, flattened on the base, pitted above with polygonal or
circular depressions. _Larva_ slug-shaped, thickest in the middle and
tapering either way, head very small. _Chrysalid_ rounded at either
end, and supported by a silken girdle a little forward of the middle.

The genus is found in both hemispheres. There are over a dozen species
in the United States, five of which we have selected for illustration.

(1) _Chrysophanus xanthoides_ (Boisduval), Plate LXXXVIII, Fig. 2, ♂
(The Great Copper).

This is the largest species of the genus in America. On the under side
the wings are creamy white, and the spots of the upper side reappear as
black markings, which show forth very distinctly on the lighter ground.
Expanse 1.50-1.65 inch.

The species is confined to the western half of the continent.

[Illustration: PL. LXXXIX]

(2) _Chrysophanus hypophlæas_ (Boisduval), Plate LXXXIX, Fig. 1, ♀ (The
American Copper).

This is one of the commonest butterflies in the United States.
Everybody has seen it flitting about upon lawns and in gardens. The
figure we give is unmistakable. Expanse 1.00 inch.

The caterpillar feeds upon common sorrel (_Rumex acetosella_). The
insect ranges from Hudson Bay to the Gulf States, but does not invade
the hot belt about the Gulf.

(3) _Chrysophanus epixanthe_ (Boisduval & Leconte), Plate LXXXIX, Fig.
2, ♂ (The Least Copper).

The smallest species in the genus, confined to the north. The male
above has the wings fuscous, shot with violet, with a few red spots
near the anal angle of the hind wings. The female is pale gray above,
more profusely marked with dark spots than the male. Below the wings
are pale gray sprinkled with bluish scales at the base, marked as
above. Expanse 0.85-0.95 inch.

Common from Newfoundland to British Columbia, never south of New
England.

(4) _Chrysophanus thoë_ (Boisduval & Leconte), Plate LXXXIX, Fig. 3, ♂
(The Bronze Copper).

The female differs from the male in having the fore wings bright
coppery red, marked with a number of dark spots, three in the cell,
one below it, and an irregular transverse band of them crossing the
limbal area. The outer margin is heavily banded with fuscous. Below the
fore wing is tawny red in both sexes, pale gray at the apex; the hind
wings are bluish gray with a broad band of carmine on the outer margin.
Both wings underneath profusely adorned with small black spots. Expanse
1.30-1.40 inch.

Ranges from Maine to Colorado, southward to northern Virginia.

[Illustration: PL. XC]

(5) _Chrysophanus helloides_ (Boisduval), Plate XC, Fig. 1, ♂ (The
Purplish Copper).

The male has the wings on the upper side broadly shot with iridescent
purple; the female, which is larger than the male, has the wings red,
with less iridescence. Below the fore wings in both sexes are pale red,
the hind wings reddish gray with a marginal row of brick-red crescents.
Expanse 1.15-1.30 inch.

Ranges from northern Illinois to British Columbia.




GENUS LYCÆNA FABRICIUS (THE BLUES).


The _butterflies_ in this group are generally small, with the upper
side of some shade of pale blue. On the under side the wings are paler
in color, variously marked with spots and lines. The genus in recent
years has been subdivided into smaller subgenera but as an ability to
discriminate these involves a knowledge of minuter anatomical details,
which is only possessed by specialists, the writer has not deemed it
worth the while in a little manual like this to go deeply into these
matters. The old name _Lycæna_, which has been in vogue for a century,
and which is still applied to part of the group, is sufficiently
characteristic. If we were reviewing all the species of the world,
of which there are many hundreds in this assemblage of forms, we
would be forced to use the minuter methods of classification. The
_eggs_ are turban-shaped; the _caterpillars_ are slug-shaped, feeding
on the petals and bracts of flowers or tender terminal leaves; the
_chrysalids_ are short, rounded at either end, supported by a silken
girdle and closely appressed to the supporting surface.

(1) _Lycæna couperi_ Grote, Plate XC, Fig. 2, ♂, _under side_ (Couper’s
Blue).

On the upper side the wings of the male are pale shining blue with a
narrow black border; of the female darker blue broadly margined with
dusky. On the under side in both sexes the wings are brownish gray
relieved with white spots, having dark pupils. Expanse 1.25 inch. It is
a boreal form.

(2) _Lycæna aster_ Edwards, Plate XC, Fig. 3, ♂, _under side_ (The
Aster Blue).

On the upper side the male is pale lilac-blue, the female darker blue,
with a submarginal row of paler blue spots on the margin of the hind
wing. On the under side the fore wings have a dark bar at the end of
the cell followed on the limbal area with a curved band of small dark
spots. This style of decoration is repeated on the hind wings, and
in addition there is a marginal band of pale yellow oval spots, each
surrounded by a fine black encircling line. Expanse 0.95-1.00 inch. The
insect is known thus far only from Newfoundland.

(3) _Lycæna melissa_ Edwards, Plate XC, Fig. 4, ♀ (The Orange-margined
Blue).

The male on the upper side is pale blue, with a narrow black marginal
line and white fringes. The female is brown or lilac-gray with a series
of orange-red crescents on the outer margin of both wings. The wings
below are stone-gray with the usual spots, but on the hind wings the
orange crescents are oblong tipped inwardly with black and outwardly
with metallic green. Expanse 0.90-1.15 inch.

Ranges from Arizona to Montana.

[Illustration: PL. XCI]

(4) _Lycæna scudderi_ Edwards, Plate XCI, Fig. 1, ♂ (Scudder’s Blue).

Our figure gives a good idea of the upper side of the male, which is
hard to discriminate from the same sex of _L. melissa_. The female is
darker, and has only a few orange crescents on the outer margin of the
hind wing on the upper side. On the under side the wings are shining
white, the spots much reduced in size, the large orange spots found in
_L. melissa_ being replaced by little ochreous spots very obscurely
tipped externally by a few greenish scales.

The caterpillar feeds on lupine and allied plants. The insect is very
common in the basin of the St. Lawrence River and the Great Lakes. It
abounds in central New York.

[Illustration: PL. XCII]

(5) _Lycæna pseudargiolus_ (Boisduval & Leconte), Plate XCI, Fig. 2,
♂; Fig. 3, ♀. Form _neglecta_ Edwards, Plate XCI, Fig. 4, ♂; Fig.
5, ♀. Form _lucia_ Kirby, Plate XCII, Fig. 1, ♂, _under side_. Form
_marginata_ Edwards, Plate XCII, Fig. 2, ♂, _under side_; Fig. 3, ♂,
_upper side_. Form _nigra_ Edwards, Plate XCII, Fig. 4, ♀ (The Common
Blue).

This insect which is very common and may be found upon the wing from
early spring until late in the autumn illustrates in a remarkable
manner the phenomenon of polymorphism; that is to say, it has a number
of forms, some of which are seasonal, some of which are sexual, some
of which are climatic. It is in fact only through the labors of the
late William Henry Edwards that some of the mysteries were cleared up,
he having by breeding established the fact that some of the so-called
species could be raised from eggs derived from one common stock. The
great series of specimens upon which his conclusions were founded
are in the possession of the writer, and have from time to time been
supplemented by a vast amount of other material all of which confirms
his teachings.

The forms _lucia_ and _marginata_ are winter forms, coming from
chrysalids which have endured the long cold of the winter months and
are the first to appear in spring. They are the only forms which occur
in the far north near the Arctic Circle.

The forms _pseudargiolus_ and _neglecta_ are summer forms of the
second and third generations, produced from eggs laid by _lucia_ and
_marginata_. _Nigra_ is a dimorphic female form belonging to the summer
broods and is melanic; that is to say, it is a form in which dark color
prevails. Students of biology recognize a tendency in some animals to
become black, while there is also a tendency to become white, or to
produce albinoes. These tendencies in opposite directions in color are
often observed in butterflies, and the melanic female of the species
under consideration illustrates it. There is still another form,
_piasus_, which occurs in Arizona and Mexico, and is climatic, or due
to the influence of environment.

The winter forms are dwarfed and darkly marked on the under side as our
figures show; the summer forms are larger, pale on the under side and
dark on the outer borders above.

The species has a range in the expanse of wing of from 0.85-1.25 inch.

It occurs from Alaska to Florida, and from Anticosti to northern Mexico.

[Illustration: PL. XCIII]

(6) _Lycæna amyntula_ Boisduval, Plate XCIII, Fig. 1, ♂; Fig. 2, ♀ (The
Western Tailed Blue).

Male pale blue on upper side; female darker, the hind wings with a
submarginal row of orange crescents pupilled with black. Expanse
1.00-1.25 inch.

Ranges from the Rocky Mountains to the Pacific in British America and
southward as far as Colorado.

(7) _Lycæna comyntas_ (Godart), Plate XCIII, Fig. 3, ♂; Fig. 4, ♀ (The
Eastern Tailed Blue).

Somewhat closely resembling the preceding, but appreciably smaller.
Expanse 1.00-1.10 inch.

Ranges from the Saskatchewan to Costa Rica, and from the Atlantic to
the Rocky Mountains.

(8) _Lycæna isophthalma_ Herrich-Schäffer, Plate XCIII, Fig. 5, ♀ (The
Dwarf Blue).

Light brown above in both sexes, with a row of dark spots on outer
margin of hind wings; below pale brown profusely marked by light spots
and bands, the dark marginal spots of the upper side reappearing, and
defined by circlets of metallic scales. Expanse 0.75 inch.

Found in the Gulf States and the Antilles.

(9) _Lycæna exilis_ Boisduval, Plate XCIII, Fig. 6, ♂ (The Pygmy Blue).

The smallest of North American butterflies, closely resembling the
foregoing, but distinguished by the white spot on fringe near inner
angle of fore wing, and the white fringes of the same wing near apex.
Expanse 0.65 inch.

The Pygmy occurs in the Gulf States and in tropical America.

(10) _Lycæna theona_ Lucas, Plate XCIII, Fig. 7, ♀ (The West Indian
Blue).

Male shining lavender-blue; this color also glosses the dark outer
borders of the wings; female white, with outer borders heavily
blackish; fore wings shot with shining sky-blue at base. Hind wings
near anal angle have conspicuous eye-spots both above and below.
Expanse 0.80 inch.

Occurs in the Gulf States and throughout the tropics of the New World.

[Illustration: PL. XCIV]

(11) _Lycæna acmon_ Doubleday & Hewitson, Plate XCIV, Fig. 1, ♂
(Red-margined Blue).

In many respects resembling _L. melissa_, but somewhat smaller. Male
on upper side brighter blue, and female not as brown as _L. melissa_,
though darker than the male, her wings broadly shot with violet-blue.
In both sexes a broad deep red submarginal band on hind wings, marked
with black spots. Expanse 0.85-1.10 inch.

Ranges from Arizona to Washington and Montana. The larva feeds on
_Hosackia_.

(12) _Lycæna ammon_ Lucas, Plate XCIV, Fig. 2, ♀, _under side_ (The
Indian River Blue).

Male brilliant lilac-blue on upper side; female violet-blue with wide
black borders on fore wings, and one or two conspicuous eye-spots
near anal angle of hind wings, each surmounted by a carmine crescent.
Expanse 0.95-1.10 inch.

Not uncommon in southern Florida; abundant in the Antilles and tropical
America.

(13) _Lycæna marina_ Reakirt, Plate XCIV, Fig. 4, ♀ (The Marine Blue).

Male on upper side pale dusky lilac, the dark bands of the under side
showing through on upper side. Female dark brown above, with wings at
base shot with lilac-blue; the dark bands on the disk are prominent in
this sex, especially on fore wings. Expanse 1.10 inch.

Occurs in Texas, Arizona, southern California, and southward. The larva
feeds on alfalfa and allied plants.

(14) _Lycæna lygdamus_ (Doubleday), Plate XCIV, Fig. 3, ♂ (The Silvery
Blue).

The upper side is well shown in our illustration. The under side is
pale chocolate-brown, having on both wings a submarginal band of black
spots encircled with white, similar spots at the end of the cells, and
one or two also on the costa of the hind wing. Expanse 0.85-1.00 inch.

Ranges from Michigan to Georgia.

(15) _Lycæna heteronea_ Boisduval, Plate XCIV, Fig. 5, ♂; Fig. 6, ♀
(The Varied Blue).

The largest species of the genus. Male blue, female brown; the
markings on upper side of latter recalling the female of the genus
_Chrysophanus_. Expanse 1.25-1.40 inch. Below the wings are white
marked with faint brown spots on the hind wings and more distinct spots
on the fore wings.

Ranges from Colorado to California at suitable elevations among the
mountains.




FAMILY PAPILIONIDÆ

(THE SWALLOW-TAILS AND ALLIES).


The _butterflies_ of this group are provided in both sexes with six
legs adapted to walking. The internal vein of the hind wing is wanting,
its place being taken by the submedian. _Caterpillars_ elongate, and
in the genus _Papilio_ provided with _osmateria_ or protrusive forking
scent-organs, which, when excited, they thrust forth from the pouch
back of the head in which they usually lie concealed. _Chrysalids_ in
all the genera more or less elongate, attached at anal extremity to a
button of silk, and held in place by a silk girdle, but never closely
appressed to the supporting surface as is the case in the _Erycinidæ_
and _Lycænidæ_.




SUBFAMILY PIERINÆ

(THE YELLOWS, SULPHURS, AND WHITES).


For the most part small or medium-sized _butterflies_, white or yellow
in color, with dark marginal markings. The _eggs_ are spindle-shaped,
marked with vertical ridges and horizontal cross-lines. The
_caterpillars_ are cylindrical, relatively long, generally green in
color, with longitudinal stripes. The _chrysalids_ are more or less
pointed at the head, with the wing-cases greatly developed on the
ventral side, forming a more or less keel-shaped projection upon this
surface.

The subfamily is very large, and is well represented in the tropics
of both the eastern and western hemispheres. Certain genera are also
widely distributed in the colder regions of both the north and the
south, among them the genus _Colias_, species of which occur from
Greenland to Patagonia and from the North Cape to the Cape of Good
Hope.




GENUS TACHYRIS WALLACE

(THE FLORIDA WHITE).


There are about seventy species in this genus, all of which are found
in the Old World, except the one which occurs in our fauna, and which
has a very wide range throughout the tropics of the New World.

[Illustration: PL. XCV]

(1) _Tachyris ilaire_ (Godart), Plate XCV, Fig. 1, ♂; Fig. 2, ♀. Our
plate gives such an excellent reproduction of the upper side of the
wings of this species that no formal description seems necessary. A
melanic form of the female sometimes occurs in which the wings are
almost wholly dull blackish on both sides. Normally the under side of
the wings in the female is pearly white marked with bright orange at
base of fore wings. Expanse 2.50-2.75 inches.

Occurs in southern Florida and throughout tropical America.




GENUS PIERIS SCHRANK

(THE WHITES).


Medium-sized _butterflies_, generally white in color, marked on both
upper and under sides with darker lines and spots. Antennæ clubbed;
palpi short, compressed, with the last joint short and pointed. _Eggs_
spindle-shaped, with vertical raised ridges. _Caterpillar_ elongate,
head hemispherical, feeding upon cruciferous plants. _Chrysalis_
attached by anal extremity and held in place by a silk girdle; concave
on the ventral side, convex on the dorsal side, with a hump-like or
keel-shaped eminence on the thorax. Head conical.

An extensive genus, confined principally to the northern hemisphere.

[Illustration: PL. XCVI]

(1) _Pieris monuste_ (Linnæus), Plate XCVI, Fig. 1, ♂; Fig. 2, ♀ (The
Great Southern White).

Our figure gives a perfect idea of the upper side of the wings. Hind
wing on under side grayish saffron, crossed by a poorly defined pale
brown transverse band of spots, the veins pale brown, between them pale
brown rays on the interspaces. Expanse 1.65-2.35 inches.

Has a wide range in tropical America. Common in the Gulf States.

[Illustration: PL. XCVII]

(2) _Pieris protodice_ Boisduval & Leconte, Plate XCVII, Fig. 1, ♂;
Fig. 2, ♀ (The Common White).

Our illustration of both sexes obviates the necessity for a
description. Expanse 1.90-2.15 inches.

Ranges from the Atlantic to the Rocky Mountains, and from southern
Canada to the Gulf States.

[Illustration: PL. XCVIII]

(3) _Pieris napi_ (Linnæus), variety _oleracea_ (Harris), Plate XCVIII,
Fig. 1, ♂; variety _pallida_ Scudder, Plate XCVIII, Fig. 2, ♂; variety
_bryoniæ_ (Ochsenheimer), Plate XCVIII, Fig. 3, ♀ (The Mustard White).
(See p. 174.)

Occurs throughout temperate and boreal North America, ranging well up
to the Arctic Circle; also occurs in the eastern hemisphere, ranging
from north Africa to the North Cape, and all over temperate and
subarctic Asia. There are a multitude of forms which have been named
and described; we give but three of those found in America. _Oleracea_
is a winter form; _pallida_ is the common form; and _bryoniæ_ is a
subarctic form found in Alaska, Siberia, and the Alps in Europe.

The species ranges from the Atlantic to the Pacific, and from Alaska to
the northern boundaries of the Gulf States. Expanse 1.50-2.00 inches.

[Illustration: PL. XCIX]

(4) _Pieris rapæ_ (Linnæus), Plate XCIX, Fig. 1, ♂; Fig. 2, ♀ (The
Cabbage Butterfly). (See p. 174.)

This excessively common insect has been in comparatively recent years
introduced from Europe. It first appeared about Quebec in 1860; since
then it has come to occupy the continent, and wherever cabbages are
grown hundreds of these butterflies may be seen. The loss to gardeners
which it causes is estimated to run into millions of dollars annually.
It feeds on all the _Cruciferæ_. The multiplication of _P. rapæ_ has
been followed by the partial extinction of our native Pierids just as
our birds have disappeared before the English Sparrow. Expanse 2.00
inches.




GENUS NATHALIS BOISDUVAL


Small yellow butterflies margined with black. Fore wings somewhat
narrow and produced; antennæ quite short; upper radial vein in fore
wing wanting. There are three species found in the subtropical regions
of the New World, one of which invades our territory.

[Illustration: PL. C]

(1) _Nathalis iole_, Boisduval Plate C, Fig. 1, ♂; Fig. 2, ♀ (The Dwarf
Yellow).

This little species, of which we give excellent figures, cannot be
mistaken. Expanse 1.00-1.25 inch.

It ranges from southern Indiana and Illinois to Arizona, southern
California, and northern Mexico. The larva feeds on _Erodium
cicutarium_ or pin-clover, and other _Geraniaceæ_.




GENUS EUCHLOË HÜBNER

(THE ORANGE-TIPS AND MARBLE-WINGS).


Small _butterflies_, white in color, with the apex of the fore wings
dark brown, marked with spots and bands of orange-yellow or crimson; on
the under side the hind wings are generally more or less mottled with
green spots and striæ. _Eggs_ spindle-shaped; _caterpillar_ relatively
long, with small head; _chrysalis_ with the head greatly produced,
wing-cases compressed forming a keel-shaped projection.

(1) _Euchloë ausonides_ (Lucas), Plate C, Fig. 3, ♂, _under side_ (The
Western Orange-tip).

On upper side wings at apex tipped with dark fuscous, and lack
altogether the orange or red which is characteristic of most of the
other species of the genus. On under side fore wings have a very pale
greenish tint; hind wings marked with three irregular green bands, more
or less broken up, forking in various directions. Expanse 1.65-1.90
inch.

Ranging from Arizona to Alaska and eastward to Colorado.


(2) _Euchloë genutia_ (Fabricius). Plate C, Fig. 4, ♂ (The Falcate
Orange-tip).

Readily recognized by the hooked tip of the fore wings. The female has
no orange marking on the tip. Single-brooded in the Northern States,
but double-brooded in the Carolinas. Expanse 1.30-1.50 inch. The
caterpillar feeds on _Sisybrium_, _Arabis_, _Cardamine_, and other
cruciferous plants.

Ranges from New England to Texas.

[Illustration: PL. CI]

(3) _Euchloë sara_ (Lucas) Plate CI, Fig. 1, ♂ (Lucas’ Orange-tip).

There are numerous varieties of this beautiful insect. On the under
side the hind wings are marked with irregular patches of greenish
scales having a “mossy” appearance. Expanse 1.75 inch. Occurs in
Pacific States.

(4) _Euchloë rosa_ (Edwards), Plate CI, Fig. 2, ♂, _under side_ (The
Rosy Marble-wing).

Above pure white without any red at the tip of the primaries; a
transapical black band, broken in the middle, and a small black bar
closes the cell. Under side well shown in our figure except that
there fails to appear a faint rosy tint in the hind wings which is
characteristic of all specimens which we have examined. Expanse
1.35-1.40 inch. Found in Texas.

(5) _Euchloë hyantis_ (Edwards), Plate CI, Fig. 3, ♀, _under side_
(Edwards’ Marble-wing).

This species also is without orange at the tip of the fore wings; the
wings on the under side are as shown in our figure, heavily marbled on
the hind wings with dark green bands and spots. Expanse 1.65-1.85 inch.
_Habitat_ California.




GENUS CATOPSILIA HÜBNER (THE GREAT SULPHURS).


Large _butterflies_; brilliant lemon-yellow or orange-yellow marked
with a few darker spots and with a narrow band of brown, especially
in the female, on the outer margin of the fore wings. Very quick in
flight. _Eggs_ spindle-shaped and acutely pointed, vertically ribbed.
_Caterpillars_ relatively long, head small, segments resembling beads
strung together, surface covered with minute papillæ in transverse
rows. _Chrysalis_ concave dorsally, head conical, projecting,
wing-cases compressed, forming a wide keel-shaped projection on ventral
side.

The genus is mainly tropical; one species, however, ranges as far north
as Long Island and western Pennsylvania.

[Illustration: PL. CII]

(1) _Catopsilia eubule_ (Linnæus), Plate CII, Fig. 1, ♂; Fig. 2, ♀ (The
Cloudless Sulphur).

Well depicted in our plate and requiring no special description.
Expanse 2.50 inches. The caterpillar feeds on leguminous plants,
preferably the species of _Cassia_.




GENUS KRICOGONIA REAKIRT


Medium-sized butterflies, whitish or yellow on upper side, with some
dark markings, especially in the male; fore wings somewhat falcate.

The genus is confined to the New World; one species occurs in our
territory.

[Illustration: PL. CIII]

(1) _Kricogonia lyside_ (Godart), form _terissa_ (Lucas), Plate CIII,
Fig. 1, ♂; Fig. 2, ♀ (Godart’s Sulphur).

Our plate gives a very good idea of this insect in both sexes, the male
being always marked near the outer angle of hind wings by a short black
bar. Expanse 1.90-2.10 inches.

Found in southern Texas and Mexico.

There are a number of forms of this insect, slightly variant.




GENUS MEGANOSTOMA REAKIRT (THE DOG-FACE BUTTERFLIES).


Closely resembling the insects of the next genus, from which they may
be distinguished by the more pointed fore wings, and the fact that the
rude outlines of the head of a dog are shown in yellow silhouette upon
the fore wings. There are two species in our territory, one of which,
_M. eurydice_ Boisduval, found in California, may be distinguished from
the other by the splendid purplish iridescence of the fore wings of the
male.

[Illustration: PL. CIV]

(1) _Meganostoma cæsonia_ (Stoll), Plate CIV, ♂ (The Southern
Dog-face). (See p. 180.)

The sexes are much alike in this species, which ranges from Florida and
the Gulf States northward as far as southern Illinois. Expanse 2.25
inches.




GENUS COLIAS FABRICIUS (THE SULPHURS).


Medium-sized _butterflies_, yellow, orange, and sometimes white or
greenish yellow with dark-bordered wings, the borders generally
heaviest in the female. _Eggs_ spindle-shaped, tapering at top and
bottom, and attached to the surface where laid by a flat disk-like
expansion; vertically and horizontally ribbed. _Caterpillars_
elongated; head small; body generally green, striped longitudinally.
They feed upon leguminous plants, and especially upon the various
species of clover (_Trifolium_) and _Astragalus_, though some
boreal species are known to feed upon the foliage of huckleberries
(_Vaccinium_) and willows.

The genus is large and is found on every continent except Australia.
It is lacking in the very hot tropical regions of both the New and
Old Worlds, but is found in Greenland and thence ranging south among
the cordilleran uplifts to Patagonia. It is represented from Japan to
Norway, and turns up at the Cape of Good Hope.

[Illustration: PL. CV]

(1) _Colias philodice_ Godart, Plate CV, Fig. 1, ♂; Fig. 2, _albino_, ♀
(The Common Sulphur).

This is the common “Puddle-butterfly” or “Clover-butterfly” which every
child has seen gathered in swarms about moist places, or hovering by
the score or hundreds over the blossoming clover fields. There are many
variations both in size and color. The females are frequently albinoes,
that is to say they are white, rather than yellow. Now and then melanic
males turn up, but they are rare. In these the wings are black, of
the same color as the borders in normal specimens. Expanse 1.25-2.25
inches.

Ranges from Canada to Florida and westward to the Rocky Mountains.

[Illustration: PL. CVI]

[Illustration: PL. CVII]

(2) _Colias eurytheme_ Boisduval, Plate CVI, Fig. 1, ♂; Plate CVII, ♀;
form _keewaydin_ Edwards, Plate CVI, Fig. 2, ♂ (The Orange Sulphur).
(See pp. 182 and 183.)

This is a form which is known to be very strongly polymorphic, having
quite as many varieties and races as _Lycæna pseudargiolus_, for
instance. _C. keewaydin_ is a large winter form, which has the wings
strongly washed with orange; there is a small winter form called _C.
ariadne_, which is also laved with orange, though not so strongly.
There is another form called _C. eriphyle_, which belongs to the summer
brood, which has no orange on the wings, but is plain yellow; and there
are still other forms. Expanse 1.60-2.15 inches.

The Orange Sulphur has a wide range, extending from the Atlantic to the
Pacific, and from Canada to the northern portions of the Gulf States,
though not invading the hotter parts of these states.




GENUS TERIAS SWAINSON (THE YELLOWS).


Small _butterflies_, generally some shade of orange or yellow, with
wings more delicate in structure than most of the genera belonging
to the _Pierinæ_. Both wings generally rounded, but in a few species
produced at the apex of the fore wing and at the end of the second
median nervule of the hind wing. _Eggs_ spindle-shaped, much swollen
at the middle. _Larva_ cylindrical, with a very small head, and the
three first segments larger than those after them giving the body a
humped appearance in front. _Chrysalis_ compressed laterally, with the
wing-cases forming a deep keel on the ventral side, more pronounced
than in any other American genus, except _Catopsilia_.

This is a very large genus represented by many species in the tropical
and subtropical regions of both the eastern and western hemispheres.
Many of the species are dimorphic or polymorphic, and there is a vast
deal of confusion as to their classification.

[Illustration: PL. CVIII]

(1) _Terias nicippe_ (Cramer), Plate CVIII, Fig. 1, ♂; Fig. 2, ♀ (The
Small Orange). (See Plate on p. 184.)

The species is subject to considerable variation. Rare in New England,
but common south of latitude 40° as far as the Rocky Mountains; also
reported from Southern California, where it is rare. Expanse 1.50-2.00
inches.

(2) _Terias mexicana_ Boisduval, Plate CVIII, Fig. 3, ♂ (The Mexican
Yellow). (See Plate on p. 184.)

Easily recognizable by our figure. Expanse 1.75-1.85 inch. Found in
Texas and Arizona, thence southward.

[Illustration: PL. CIX]

(3) _Terias lisa_ (Boisduval & Leconte), Plate CIX, Fig. 1, ♂ (The
Little Sulphur). (See Plate on p. 184.)

Allied to the three following species, but may be told apart at once by
the solid black outer borders of the wings and the absence of the black
band on the hind margin of the fore wing. Expanse 1.25-1.60 inch.

Ranges from New England to Honduras, east of the Rockies.


(4) _Terias elathea_ (Cramer), Plate CIX, Fig. 2, ♂ (The Florida
Yellow). (See Plate on p. 184.)

May be told from the next two species by the white hind wings. Expanse
1.25-1.40 inch.

Found in Florida, Mexico, and the Antilles.

[Illustration: PL. CX]

(5) _Terias delia_ (Cramer), Plate CX, Fig. 1, ♂; Fig. 2, ♀ (The Gulf
Yellow). (See Plate on p. 185.)

Almost exactly like the preceding species, but the hind wings are
yellow above and red below, and the apex of the fore wing is red below.
Expanse 1.25-1.50 inch.

Common in the Gulf States.

This species and the one preceding and following are very closely
related but perfectly distinct. They are apt to puzzle the beginner,
but by comparison he will soon learn to discriminate them.


(6) _Terias jucunda_ (Boisduval & Leconte), Plate CX, Fig. 3, ♂ (The
Fairy Yellow).

Separable from the preceding species by the black border surrounding
the hind wing, and the pale under surface. Expanse 1.60-1.75 inch.

Found in the Gulf States.


(7) _Terias proterpia_ (Fabricius), Plate CX, Fig. 4, ♂ (The Cadmium
Orange).

Our figure will enable the student to immediately recognize it. Expanse
1.50-1.75 inch.

Found in Texas, Arizona, and Mexico.




SUBFAMILY PARNASSIINÆ

(THE PARNASSIANS).


This peculiar group of butterflies is classed with the Papilionidæ
because the internal vein of the hind wings is always wanting, a
characteristic of all papilionine genera. The caterpillars are not
provided with osmateria, or offensive scent-organs, and pupation
takes place upon the ground among loosely scattered leaves which
are interwoven by the larva with a few loose strands of silk. The
insects are mainly inhabitants of the mountain regions of the northern
hemisphere.




GENUS PARNASSIUS LATREILLE

(THE PARNASSIANS).


What has been said of the family will suffice to characterize the genus.

[Illustration: PL. CXI]

(1) _Parnassius smintheus_ Doubleday & Hewitson, Plate CXI, Fig. 1, ♂;
Fig. 2, ♀ (The Colorado Parnassian).

This is a somewhat variable species, but may easily be recognized by
the figures we give. Expanse ♂, 2.00-2.50; ♀, 2.25-3.00 inches.

Ranges from New Mexico and Colorado west to California and north to
Montana. The caterpillar feeds upon _Sedum_ and _Saxifraga_.




SUBFAMILY PAPILIONINÆ

(THE SWALLOW-TAILS).


Large butterflies. As shown on Plate B, Fig. 10, the hind wings lack
the internal vein, its place being held by the submedian vein. There is
great diversity of form in this group. Many species are tailed, as are
the three occurring in Europe, and the name common in England has come
in popular phrase to be loosely applied to the whole genus.

There are many hundreds of species and varietal forms, most of which
occur in the tropics of the eastern and western hemispheres. There are
only three species found in all Europe; there are about thirty found in
the United States and Canada.




GENUS PAPILIO LINNÆUS

(THE SWALLOW-TAILS).


This great genus has been subdivided for purposes of classification
into a number of smaller groups or subgenera, which are useful
when dealing with the whole assemblage of species, but which in a
manual like this, dealing with only a few forms, may consistently be
overlooked.

[Illustration: PL. CXII]

[Illustration: PL. CXIII]

(1) _Papilio ajax_ Linnæus. Winter form _walshi_ Edwards, Plate CXII,
♂; summer form _marcellus_ Boisduval, Plate CXIII, ♂ (The Papaw
Butterfly).

The species is more or less polymorphic. Plate CXII represents the form
which emerges in the spring of the year from chrysalids which have
overwintered; Plate CXIII shows the form which appears in the second
brood and in which the tails are twice as long as in the first. There
are other forms. Expanse 2.50-3.25 inches.

The caterpillar feeds upon the leaves of the Papaw (_Asimina triloba_)
and wherever this plant grows the insect may be found. It ranges from
New England and Ontario to Florida and far westward through the valley
of the Mississippi.

[Illustration: PL. CXIV]

[Illustration: PL. CXV]

(2) _Papilio turnus_ Linnæus, Plate CXIV, ♂; Plate CXV, _P. glaucus_
Linnæus, dark dimorphic ♀, _under side_ (The Tiger Swallow-tail).

In the Middle States and southward a large proportion of the females
are black, belonging to the form _glaucus_; in Ontario and northward
and westward to Alaska the females are yellow, like the males. The
Alaskan form is very small, dwarfed by the cold and poor feeding. The
figure on Plate CXIV is that of a male from Alaska of the natural size;
a specimen taken in Pennsylvania would be nearly twice as large. The
metropolis of the species is the Appalachian uplift; but it ranges
northwestward to Alaska and south to the Gulf States. Expanse 3.00-5.00
inches.

The caterpillars are partial to the foliage of wild cherry trees, but
are found on a great variety of plants.

The dark female form reveals its relationship to the paler form by
the stripes on the under side. On the upper side the insect shown on
Plate CXV is very black and shows no stripes at all. I possess females
with yellow wings on one side and black on the other. The identity of
the forms named by Linnæus _turnus_ and _glaucus_ could not be more
forcibly shown than by these specimens, in which the two are united by
the vital force which called them into being.

[Illustration: PL. CXVI]


(3) _Papilio rutulus_ Boisduval, Plate CXVI, ♂ (The Pacific Tiger).

Closely resembling _P. turnus_, which it replaces on the Pacific
Coast in Washington and southward. The female is never dimorphic; the
marginal light spots on the under side of the fore wings run together
forming a continuous band, and are not separate as in _P. turnus_.
Expanse 3.50-4.25 inches.

The larva feeds on alder and willows.

[Illustration: PL. CXVII]

(4) _Papilio eurymedon_ Boisduval, Plate CXVII, ♂ (The White-striped
Tiger).

Belonging to the same group as the two preceding species, but
distinguished by the pale creamy white color of the ground-color of the
wings, and by the fact that the submarginal spots on the under side of
the fore wings form, as in _P. rutulus_, a continuous band. Expanse
3.50-4.00 inches.

The caterpillar feeds on _Rhamnus californicus_ and other plants. The
insect ranges from Mexico to British Columbia and eastward to Colorado.

[Illustration: PL. CXVIII]

(5) _Papilio daunus_ Boisduval, Plate CXVIII, ♂ (The Two-tailed
Swallow-tail).

This fine insect is even larger than _P. turnus_, which it somewhat
resembles, but from which it can at once be distinguished by the two
tails on the hind wings, followed by a lobe at the anal angle. Expanse
4.00-5.25 inches.

Found in the region of the Rocky Mountains from Idaho south to Mexico,
but not found west of the Sierra Nevada and Coast Ranges in California.

[Illustration: PL. CXIX]

(6) _Papilio pilumnus_ Boisduval, Plate CXIX, ♂ (The Three-tailed
Swallow-tail).

Easily recognized from our figure. The lobe at the anal angle is so
much produced as to give the hind wing the appearance of having three
tails. Expanse 3.80-4.30 inches.

A Mexican species which occasionally is found in Arizona. It is one of
the most beautiful species of the group to which it belongs and is rare
in collections.

[Illustration: PL. CXX]

(7) _Papilio cresphontes_ Cramer, Plate CXX, ♀ (The Giant Swallow-tail).

One of the largest and most showy species of the genus found in our
territory. The caterpillar feeds upon _Ptelea_, _Xanthoxylon_, and
_Citrus_. It has a wide range from southern Ontario to Florida and
through the Mississippi Valley to Mexico. Expanse 3.75-5.50 inches.

[Illustration: PL. CXXI]

(8) _Papilio Troilus_ Linnæus, Plate CXXI, ♂ (The Spice-bush
Swallow-tail).

The caterpillar, which is green, with two big eye-spots on the back
a little behind the head, lives on the foliage of the sassafras and
spice-wood, where it folds together a leaf, in which it conceals itself
from view during the daytime, coming out to feed at night. The insect
is found throughout the eastern United States and the Mississippi
Valley, wherever its food-plant occurs. Expanse 3.75-4.25 inches.

[Illustration: PL. CXXII]

(9) _Papilio palamedes_ Drury, Plate CXXII, ♂ (The Magnolia
Swallow-tail). (See next page.)

The upper side of this fine insect is well shown on our plate; the
under side is prevalently yellow. The larva feeds on the foliage of
_Magnolia glauca_ and the _Lauraceæ_. Expanse 3.50-4.50 inches.

Ranges from southern Virginia near the coast to the extreme southern
end of Florida and westward to southern Missouri and eastern Texas.

[Illustration: PL. CXXIII]

(10) _Papilio polyxenes_ Fabricius, Plate CXXIII, ♂ (The Eastern
Swallow-tail). (See next page.)

This butterfly and the three which follow belong to a group of the
genus which in England is represented by _P. machaon_ of the fens of
Cambridgeshire and Norfolk. There are many species evidently derived in
past time from common stock, which are found in America, and the writer
believes that the original centre of dispersion was this continent,
and that the English Swallow-tail represents the most western range of
the migration, which probably began in Tertiary times, when the horse,
the camel, and other North American animals passed over into Asia and
became subsequently extinct in the land of their origin. _P. machaon_
still exists in Alaska as the variety _P. aliaska_ Scudder.

_P. polyxenes_, more commonly known by its later name _P. asterius_,
or _P. asterias_, is found all over the Atlantic States and the
Mississippi Valley. The caterpillar feeds upon umbelliferous plants,
and is very partial to fennel. Expanse 2.75-3.25 inches.

[Illustration: PL. CXXIV]

(11) _Papilio brevicauda_ Saunders, Plate CXXIV, ♀ (The Newfoundland
Swallow-tail).

There are two forms, one found on Anticosti, in which the spots on the
upper side of the wings are bright yellow, the other in which they are
more or less red in color. The latter form is common in Newfoundland,
and is shown in the Plate. Closely related to _P. polyxenes_, but with
shorter tails. Expanse 2.75-3.00 inches.

[Illustration: PL. CXXV]

(12) _Papilio indra_ Reakirt, Plate CXXV, ♂ (The Mountain Swallow-tail).

The resemblance to _P. polyxenes_ is marked, but it will be observed
that the tails have undergone even greater reduction in length than in
_P. brevicauda_, and that the band of yellow spots traversing the wings
has been reduced in width. Expanse 2.50-2.75 inches.

Found on the high mountains of Colorado, Nevada, and California.

[Illustration: PL. CXXVI]

(13) _Papilio zelicaon_ Boisduval, Plate CXXVI, ♂ (The Western
Swallow-tail).

In many respects like _P. polyxenes_, but having the median bands of
yellow greatly widened, until on the hind wing the band covers almost
the entire basal half of the wing. Expanse 2.75-3.25 inches.

Ranges from Vancouver Island to Arizona and eastward as far as
Colorado.

(_Note._ The name _zolicaon_, often given by authors, must be replaced
by the original name _zelicaon_.)

[Illustration: PL. CXXVII]

(14) _Papilio philenor_ Linnæus, Plate CXXVII, ♂ (The Pipe-vine
Swallow-tail).

The caterpillar feeds upon the foliage of _Aristolochia sipho_, or
the “Dutchman’s Pipe,” a plant extensively grown about verandas and
porches, and native to the Allegheny Mountains. It also eats the leaves
of _Aristolochia serpentaria_, a smaller plant of the same genus. The
wings have an expanse of 3.75-4.25 inches.

The range is from Massachusetts to California and south into Mexico.

[Illustration: PL. CXXVIII]

(15) _Papilio polydamas_ Linnæus, Plate CXXVIII, ♂ (The Reef
Butterfly). (See Plate on p. 198.)

This is the sole representant in our fauna of a great group of splendid
butterflies peculiar to the tropics of the New World, which are true
papilionids, but without tails, their wings generally of some shade of
green, and wonderfully adorned with spots of other colors, generally
yellow or crimson. It may easily be recognized from our figure.
Expanse 3.00-3.50 inches.

It is found in the extreme southern part of Florida and on the
adjoining reefs. It also has a wide range through the Antilles, Mexico,
and Central America.




FAMILY HESPERIIDÆ (THE SKIPPERS).


Generally quite small _butterflies_, with stout thorax. Both sexes have
six feet adapted to walking. Tibiæ of hind legs, with few exceptions,
have spurs. Lower radial of hind wing in many genera wanting, being
represented by a fold in the wing. _Eggs_ hemispherical, flat on base.
_Larvæ_ cylindrical tapering from the middle before and behind, with
large globular heads, smooth. _Chrysalids_ generally formed on the
ground or among leaves and rubbish lightly tacked together with a few
strands of silk, in which the cremaster is caught.

A large family, most numerously represented in the tropics of both the
Old and New Worlds. About three thousand species are known, of which
over one hundred occur within our limits.




SUBFAMILY PYRRHOPYGINÆ

(THE RED-TAILED SKIPPERS).


Rather large butterflies when compared with others in the family. The
antennæ terminate in a long, thick, blunt club, forming a regular
curve, looking in outline like the handle of an old-fashioned
walking-stick. Most of the species are red at the end of the abdomen.
Confined to the New World. Only one genus and species of this family
occurs within our borders.




GENUS PYRRHOPYGE HÜBNER

[Illustration: PL. CXXIX]

(1) _Pyrrhopyge araxes_ Hewitson, Plate CXXIX, Fig. 1, ♂.

Upper side correctly shown in our figure. Below the wings are
prevalently yellow. Expanse 2.25-2.50 inches.

Found in Texas, Arizona, and southward.




SUBFAMILY HESPERIINÆ (THE HESPERIDS).


Fore wing generally provided with a costal fold, but never marked with
a sexual brand or raised patch of scales on the disk. The hind wing
may be provided with a lengthy tail or simply lobed at the anal angle.
Antennæ terminating in a fine point, which in some genera is bent
backward at right angles to the shaft.




GENUS EUDAMUS SWAINSON

(THE LONG-TAILED SKIPPERS).


Hind wings more or less produced at the anal angle in the form of a
long tail. There are a number of species found in Central and South
America.

(1) _Eudamus proteus_ (Linnæus), Plate CXXIX, Fig. 2, ♀ (The
Long-tailed Skipper). (See p. 199.)

The caterpillar feeds upon _Wistaria_ and various leguminous plants.
Common in Florida, the American tropics, and occasionally found as far
north as New York.




GENUS EPARGYREUS HÜBNER

[Illustration: PL. CXXX]

(1) _Epargyreus tityrus_ (Fabricius), Plate CXXX, Fig. 1, ♂; Fig. 2, ♀,
_under side_ (The Silver-spotted Skipper).

A very common and beautiful insect. Expanse 1.75-2.00 inches.

The caterpillar usually feeds upon _Robinia_ and _Wistaria_. Has a
wide range from Quebec to Vancouver Island and south to the Isthmus of
Panama.




GENUS THORYBES SCUDDER

(THE DUSKY-WINGS).

[Illustration: PL. CXXXI]

(1) _Thorybes pylades_ Scudder, Plate CXXXI, Fig. 1, ♀ (The Northern
Dusky-wing).

Below wings dark brown shading into gray outwardly; hind wings crossed
by irregular brown bands; spots of upper side reappearing below.
Expanse 1.60 inch.

Common in New England, thence westward and southward.

(2) _Thorybes bathyllus_ (Smith & Abbot), Plate CXXXI, Fig. 2 (The
Southern Dusky-wing).

Distinguished from preceding species by the larger spots on fore wing.

Ranges from Connecticut to Texas.




GENUS ACHALARUS SCUDDER

[Illustration: PL. CXXXII]

(1) _Achalarus lycidas_ (Smith & Abbot), Plate CXXXII, Fig. 1, ♀ (The
Hoary-edge).

Upper side strongly recalls _E. tityrus_ but the hoary edge of the hind
wings and the absence of the silvery spots found in _tityrus_ at once
separate the two. Expanse 1.65-1.95 inch.

Rare in southern New England, common in Southern States as far west as
Texas.

(2) _Achalarus cellus_ (Boisduval & Leconte), Plate CXXXII, Fig. 2, ♂
(The Golden-banded Skipper).

On upper side as shown in our figure; on under side hind wings banded
as in _E. proteus_, no silver spots. Expanse 2.00 inches.

Found in the Virginias and southward to Arizona and Mexico.




GENUS HESPERIA FABRICIUS

[Illustration: PL. CXXXIII]

(1) _Hesperia tessellata_ Scudder, Plate CXXXIII, Fig. 1, ♂ (The
Tessellated Skipper).

Paler on under side than on upper side, with spots enlarged. Expanse
1.00-1.35 inch.

Ranges from Canada to the Gulf and from the Atlantic to the Pacific.

(2) _Hesperia centaureæ_ Rambur, Plate CXXXIII, Fig. 2, ♂ (The Grizzled
Skipper).

Below darker than preceding species, white circle at end of cell
surrounding black spot, thus forming an eye-like spot; hind wings below
brown scaled with green, crossed by three bands of quadrate spots.
Expanse 1.15 inch.

Found in northern Europe and Asia and from Alaska to Labrador;
extending south on the high mountains both in the West and in the
Carolinas.

(3) _Hesperia xanthus_ Edwards, Plate CXXXIII, Fig. 3, ♂ (The
Checkerling).

Resembling _H. tessellata_, but much smaller and darker at base of
wings, spots more crowded. Expanse 1.00 inch.

Found in Colorado and Rocky Mountains to west and south.




GENUS PHOLISORA SCUDDER

(THE SOOTY-WING).

[Illustration: PL. CXXXIV]

(1) _Pholisora catullus_ (Fabricius), Plate CXXXIV, Fig. 1, ♀ (The
Common Sooty-wing).

Easily recognizable by means of our figure. Expanse 0.80-1.15 inch.

The caterpillar feeds on “lamb’s-quarter” (_Chenopodium_).

Ranges over all temperate North America.

(2) _Pholisora hayhursti_ (Edwards), Plate CXXXIV, Fig. 2, ♀
(Hayhurst’s Sooty-wing).

Easily distinguished from preceding by white color of under side of
abdomen as well as by the different arrangement of spots on fore wing.
Expanse 0.90-1.15 inch.

Ranges from Pennsylvania to the Gulf as far as the Rocky Mountains.

(3) _Pholisora lybia_ Scudder, Plate CXXXIV, Fig. 3, ♂ (The Mohave
Sooty-wing).

Distinguished from the two preceding by the white fringes of the wings
and by the markings of the upper side. Expanse 0.80-1.40 inch.

Found from western Texas to Nevada and Arizona.

(4) _Pholisora alpheus_ (Edwards), Plate CXXXIV, Fig. 4, ♂ (New Mexican
Sooty-wing).

More checkered on the upper side than the other species, tip of fore
wing white. Expanse 0.95-1.00 inch.

Ranges from New Mexico to Arizona.




GENUS THANAOS BOISDUVAL

(THE DUSKY-WINGS).

[Illustration: PL. CXXXV]

(1) _Thanaos brizo_ Boisduval & Leconte, Plate CXXXV, Fig. 1, ♀ (The
Sleepy Dusky-wing).

The two rows of light yellow spots on the outer margin of the hind
wings appear more distinctly on the under side. Expanse 1.25-1.60 inch.

Larva feeds on oaks and other plants. Ranges from the Atlantic to the
Pacific, from New England to Florida and Arizona.

(2) _Thanaos icelus_ Lintner, Plate CXXXV, Fig. 2, ♂ (The Dreamy
Dusky-wing).

Under side paler than upper, marked with many small, indistinct yellow
spots, not forming well-defined bands as in preceding species. Expanse
1.00-1.20 inch.

Caterpillar feeds on aspen, oaks, and witch-hazel. Ranges from Nova
Scotia to Oregon, south to Florida and Arizona.

(3) _Thanaos lucilius_ Lintner, Plate CXXXV, Fig. 3, ♂ (Lucilius’
Dusky-wing).

Closely related to preceding, but distinguished by more regularly
checkered fringes of the fore wing and the different arrangement of the
spots on the under side. Expanse 1.20-1.40 inch.

Larva feeds on columbine (_Aquilegia_). Ranges from New England to
Georgia, and westward through the valley of the Mississippi.

[Illustration: PL. CXXXVI]

(4) _Thanaos juvenalis_ (Fabricius), Plate CXXXVI, Fig. 1, ♀ (Juvenal’s
Dusky-wing).

A large species with translucent spots arranged as an interrupted band
beyond middle of wing. Expanse 1.35-1.60 inch.

Ranges from Quebec to Florida and westward to Arizona.

(5) _Thanaos petronius_ Lintner, Plate CXXXVI, Fig. 2, ♂ (Petronius’
Dusky-wing).

Somewhat resembling the preceding, but translucent spots much fewer in
number and upper side much darker. Under side uniformly dusky with few
light spots. Expanse 1.50-1.75 inch.

Confined to Florida so far as known.

[Illustration: PL. CXXXVII]

(6) _Thanaos martialis_ Scudder, Plate CXXXVII, Fig. 1, ♂ (Martial’s
Dusky-wing).

Upper side paler than in most species, with a purplish gray cast, all
light spots of upper side repeated more distinctly on under side.
Expanse 1.25-1.40 inch.

Ranges from Massachusetts to Georgia, westward to Missouri and New
Mexico.

(7) _Thanaos horatius_ Scudder, Plate CXXXVII, Fig. 2, ♂ (Horace’s
Dusky-wing).

Smaller than _T. juvenalis_, which it resembles; paler above on both
wings, below more profusely mottled on hind wings. Expanse 1.65 inch.

Ranges from Massachusetts to Texas.

(8) _Thanaos funeralis_ Lintner, Plate CXXXVII, Fig. 3, ♂ (The Funereal
Dusky-wing).

Hind wings very dark, partly fringed with pure white. Expanse 1.35 inch.

Found from western Texas to Mexico.




SUBFAMILY PAMPHILINÆ (THE PAMPHILIDS).


The male never has a costal fold on the fore wing, but in most of the
genera has a discal stigma on the fore wing, the only exceptions to
this in our fauna being in the case of the three genera _Amblyscirtes_,
_Pamphila_, and _Oarisma_. The antennæ are short, in some genera
very short, clubbed at the end and provided in many genera with a
little finely pointed tip at the end of the club, which sometimes
is bent backward. The third joint of the palpi is generally small,
inconspicuous, and often pointing forward. The lower radial in the fore
wing always is nearer to the median than to the upper radial; the lower
radial in the hind wing is generally lacking. When at rest they raise
the fore wings, folding them together, while the hind wings are held
horizontally. This attitude is characteristic of this subfamily.




GENUS AMBLYSCIRTES SCUDDER

[Illustration: PL. CXXXVIII]

(1) _Amblyscirtes vialis_ (Edwards), Plate CXXXVIII, Fig. 1, ♂ (The
Roadside Skipper).

Wings below much as on upper side, except that outwardly they are
lightly laved with gray. Expanse 1.00 inch.

Ranges from Canada to Florida, and from the Atlantic to the Pacific.

(2) _Amblyscirtes samoset_ (Scudder), Plate CXXXVIII, Fig. 2, ♂ (The
Pepper-and-Salt Skipper). (See Plate on p. 208.)

Below wings pale gray, the light spots of upper side reappearing. Hind
wing marked by semicircular median band of white spots, a small spot at
end of cell, and conspicuous white spot about middle of costa. Expanse
1.00-1.10 inch.

Ranges from Maine to Michigan and south on the Allegheny Mountains to
West Virginia.

(3) _Amblyscirtes textor_ (Hübner), Plate CXXXVIII, Fig. 3, ♂, _under
side_ (The Woven-winged Skipper). (See Plate on p. 208.)

Easily recognized by means of our figure. Expanse 1.25-1.45 inch.

Ranges from North Carolina to Florida and westward to Texas.




GENUS PAMPHILA FABRICIUS

(1) _Pamphila mandan_ Edwards, Plate CXXXVIII, Fig. 4, ♂ (The Arctic
Skipper).

Recognizable from our figure. It is totally unlike any other species in
the fauna. Expanse 1.10 inch.

Found from Labrador to Alaska, and on the mountains of Idaho and
Montana.




GENUS OARISMA SCUDDER

[Illustration: PL. CXXXIX]

(1) _Oarisma garita_ (Reakirt), Plate CXXXIX, Fig. 1, ♂ (The Little
Dun). (See Plate on p. 210.)

On the under side both wings are somewhat brighter than on the upper
side, the hind wings inclining to leaden gray, with the inner margin
bright fulvous. Expanse 0.75-1.00 inch.

Ranges from southern Colorado to Arizona.

(2) _Oarisma powesheik_ (Parker), Plate CXXXIX, Fig. 3, ♂ (The Iowa
Dun).

Larger than the preceding species and dark on upper side; on under side
fore wings black, edged on costa with light fulvous. Hind wings dusky
below, veins and nervules white, conspicuous on darker ground. Expanse
1.00-1.25 inch.

Ranges from Wisconsin to Dakota and Colorado, common in Iowa.




GENUS ANCYLOXYPHA FELDER


(1) _Ancyloxypha numitor_ Fabricius, Plate CXXXIX, Fig. 2, ♂ (The Least
Skipper).

Below fore wings black, bordered on costa and outer margin with reddish
fulvous; hind wings pale fulvous. Expanse 0.75-0.95 inch.

Ranges from Quebec to Florida and westward to the Rocky Mountains.




GENUS COPŒODES SPEYER


(1) _Copœodes procris_ (Edwards), Plate CXXXIX, Fig. 4, ♂ (The Golden
Skipper).

Below wings as on upper side, a trifle paler than on the upper side.
The fore wings blackish on inner margin near base. Expanse 0.80-1.00
inch.

Ranges from southern Texas to southern California.

(2) _Copœodes wrighti_ (Edwards), Plate CXXXIX, Fig. 5, ♂ (Wright’s
Skipper).

Distinguished from _C. procris_ by dark fringes on both wings and
different arrangement of stigma on fore wings. Expanse 0.85-1.07 inch.

Found in southern California and eastward as far as eastern Arizona.




GENUS ERYNNIS SCHRANK


[Illustration: PL. CXL]

(1) _Erynnis manitoba_ (Scudder), Plate CXL, Fig. 1, ♂ (The Canadian
Skipper).

On the lower side all the light spots of the upper side reappear, but
more distinctly defined and pearly white in color.

Ranges north of the boundary between the United States and the Dominion
of Canada, descending into the United States as far south as Colorado
and northern California upon the high mountain ranges.

(2) _Erynnis sassacus_ (Harris), Plate CXL, Fig. 2, ♂ (The Indian
Skipper). (See p. 211.)

Below wings pale fulvous, spots of upper side feebly reproduced as
faint lighter spots; fore wings black at base on this side. Expanse
1.10-1.35 inch.

Ranges from New England to Georgia, west to Colorado.

(3) _Erynnis attalus_ (Edwards), Plate CXL, Fig. 3, ♂ (The Wisconsin
Skipper). (See p. 211.)

Below both wings are dusky, with the light spots appearing in faint
gray. The female is darker. Expanse 1.25-1.45 inch.

Ranges from New England to Wisconsin and Iowa, thence to the region of
the Gulf.

(4) _Erynnis metea_ (Scudder), Plate CXL, Fig. 4, ♂ (The Cobweb
Skipper). (See p. 211.)

Below wings are brown, much darker than above, the pale marks of upper
side repeated as pearly white spots, and on hind wings near base is a
curved band of similar white spots. Expanse 1.20-1.30 inch.

Ranges from New England to Wisconsin.

(5) _Erynnis uncas_ (Edwards), Plate CXLVIII, Fig. 4, ♂ (Uncas’
Skipper). (See p. 220.)

Below in both sexes wings beautifully marked with pearly white spots on
greenish gray ground, the spots defined inwardly and outwardly by dark
olive shades. Expanse 1.30-1.55 inch.

Ranges from Pennsylvania to Montana.

[Illustration: PL. CXLI]

(6) _Erynnis leonardus_ (Harris), Plate CXLI, Fig. 1, ♂; Fig. 2, ♀
(Leonard’s Skipper).

Larger than most of the preceding species. Below wings dark brick-red.
Spots of upper side reappearing more or less faintly. Expanse 1.25-1.35
inch.

Ranges from New England and Ontario to Florida, west throughout the
Mississippi Valley.




GENUS THYMELICUS HÜBNER


(1) _Thymelicus brettus_ (Boisduval & Leconte), Plate CXLI, Fig. 3, ♂;
Fig. 4, ♀ (The Whirlabout).

This insect, which is rare in the Northern States, is common in the
South and has a wide range through the American tropics. Expanse
1.15-1.25 inch.

[Illustration: PL. CXLII]

(2) _Thymelicus otho_ (Smith & Abbot), Plate CXLII, Fig. 1, ♂; Fig. 2,
♀.

The upper side is sufficiently well shown in our plate. Below the wings
are yellowish brown with outer half of the fore wings blackish; spots
of fore wing repeated except last. Hind wings below with an obscure
yellowish band of five or six spots. A variable species. The northern
form, with fewer spots, is called _egeremet_, and is not very common in
New England, but southward the species is abundant. Expanse 1.20-1.25
inch.

Found in New England, Florida, and west throughout the Mississippi
Valley.

(3) _Thymelicus mystic_ (Scudder), Plate CXLII, Fig. 3, ♂; Fig. 4, ♀
(The Long-dash).

Upper side of both sexes well shown in our plate. Below fore wings
fulvous on costa near base; remainder of wings on this side dark
ferruginous, with the light spots of the upper side repeated, greatly
enlarged, pale, contrasting strongly with dark ground-color. Hind wings
pale brown on inner margin. Expanse 1.10-1.25 inch.

Ranges from southern Canada to Pennsylvania and west to Wisconsin.




GENUS ATALOPEDES SCUDDER


(1) _Atalopedes huron_ (Edwards), Plate CXLII, Fig. 5, ♂; Fig. 6, ♀
(The Sachem).

Easily distinguished from the figures we give. Expanse 1.15-1.35 inch.

Ranges from New York to Florida, westward and southwestward into Mexico.




GENUS POLITES SCUDDER


[Illustration: PL. CXLIII]

(1) _Polites peckius_ (Kirby), Plate CXLIII, Fig. 1, ♂; Fig. 2, ♀
(Peck’s Skipper).

This small species is dark brown below, with the light spots of the
upper side reappearing, greatly enlarged, especially in the middle of
the wings, fused together and pale yellow, thus contrasting strongly
with the rest of the wings. Expanse 1.00-1.25 inch.

Peck’s Skipper ranges from Canada to Virginia west to Kansas and Iowa.




GENUS HYLEPHILA BILLBERG


(1) _Hylephila phyleus_ (Drury), Plate CXLIII, Fig. 3, ♂; Fig. 4, ♀
(The Fiery Skipper).

Easily recognized from our figures. Expanse 1.15-1.25 inch.

Ranges from Connecticut to Patagonia everywhere.




GENUS PRENES SCUDDER


(1) _Prenes ocola_ (Edwards), Plate CXLIII, Fig. 5, ♂ (The Ocola
Skipper). (See p. 215.)

This common southern species, which sometimes ranges as far north as
the latitude of Pennsylvania, ranges south as far as Bolivia in South
America. Expanse 1.45-1.60 inch.

The figure is that of the type.




GENUS CALPODES HÜBNER


[Illustration: PL. CXLIV]

(1) _Calpodes ethlius_ (Cramer), Plate CXLIV, ♂ (The Brazilian Skipper).

Easily recognized from our plate. Wings below dull olive. Expanse
2.00-2.15 inches.

The larva feeds on _Canna_. Common everywhere in tropical America and
has been known to stray as far north as New York.


GENUS LERODEA SCUDDER

(1) _Lerodea eufala_ (Edwards), Plate CXLIX, Fig. 3, ♂ (The Eufala
Skipper). (See p. 221.)

On the wing looks like a small specimen of _Prenes ocola_, from which
it may be distinguished at once by the white under side of the abdomen.
Expanse 1.10-1.20 inch.

Not uncommon in Florida.




GENUS LIMOCHORES SCUDDER


[Illustration: PL. CXLV]

(1) _Limochores thaumas_ (Fabricius), Plate CXLV, Fig. 1, ♂; Fig. 2, ♀
(The Fawn-edged Skipper).

Easily distinguished by means of our figures. Below in both sexes wings
dull olive, with spots of upper side repeated; costa of male edged with
red on this side as well as above. Expanse 1.00-2.07 inches.

Ranges from Canada to the Gulf, west to the Rocky Mountains.

(2) _Limochores pontiac_ (Edwards), Plate CXLV, Fig. 3, ♂; Fig. 4, ♀
(Pontiac’s Skipper).

Well represented in our figures of both sexes. Expanse 1.15-1.25 inch.

Ranges from Massachusetts to Nebraska, being very common about the
southern end of Lake Michigan.

(3) _Limochores palatka_ (Edwards), Plate CXLV, Fig. 5, ♂ (The Palatka
Skipper). (See p. 217.)

A large and rather showy species, the female expanding as much as two
inches. Expanse, ♂, 1.50 inch; ♀, 1.90-2.00 inches.

Found on Indian River, Florida.




GENUS EUPHYES SCUDDER


[Illustration: PL. CXLVI]

(1) _Euphyes verna_ (Edwards), Plate CXLVI, Fig. 1, ♂; Fig. 2, ♀ (The
Vernal Skipper).

Below wings paler, inclining to purplish red, about middle of hind
wings a semicircle of pale spots. Expanse 1.15-1.35 inch.

Ranges from southern New England to Virginia, west to Kansas, and north
to Alberta. Very common in Ohio, Indiana, and Illinois.

(2) _Euphyes metacomet_ (Harris), Plate CXLVI, Fig. 3, ♂; Fig. 4, ♀
(The Dun Skipper).

The markings of upper side reappear on lower side, the ground-color
below ranging from pale brown to purplish brown. Expanse 1.15-1.30
inch.

Found from Quebec to the Carolinas, west to Texas and Alberta and
Assiniboia.




GENUS POANES SCUDDER


(1) _Poanes massasoit_ (Scudder), Plate CXLVI, Fig. 5, ♂; Fig. 6, ♀
(The Mulberry-wing).

Below hind wings bright yellow, bordered on costa and outer margin with
reddish brown; the wings of the female not so brightly colored as those
of the male. Expanse 1.15-1.20 inch.

Ranging from New England to Nebraska, but not extending south of
Pennsylvania in the east, though occurring in the west in Colorado and
northern Texas.




GENUS PHYCANASSA SCUDDER

[Illustration: PL. CXLVII]

(1) _Phycanassa viator_ (Edwards), Plate CXLVII Fig. 1, ♂; Fig. 2, ♀
(The Broad-winged Skipper).

Below paler than above, the light spots of the upper side reappearing
less distinctly; the hind wing traversed from base to middle of outer
margin by a light-colored longitudinal ray which is not as plain in the
female as in the male. Expanse 1.45-1.60 inch.

Rare in the Northern States from New Jersey to Wisconsin, but quite
abundant in the Southern States as far west as Texas.

(2) _Phycanassa aaroni_ Skinner, Plate CXLVII, Fig. 3, ♂ (Aaron’s
Skipper). (See p. 219.)

Below fore wings black at base, middle area tawny, paler than
above, with the outlines of the borders the same, but their color
cinnamon-brown, and not fuscous, as above; hind wings below uniformly
cinnamon-brown, without any spots. Female like the male, but larger.
Expanse 1.00-1.25 inch.

Found in the salt marshes near Cape May, New Jersey, but probably has a
wider range to the south.




GENUS ATRYTONE SCUDDER


(1) _Atrytone vitellius_ (Smith & Abbot), Plate CXLVII, Fig. 4, ♂; Fig.
5, ♀ (The Iowa Skipper).

Below the wings are pale yellow, the inner margin of the fore wings
clouded with brown. Expanse 1.25-1.45 inch.

Common in the Gulf States, ranging north to Iowa and Nebraska.

[Illustration: PL. CXLVIII]

(2) _Atrytone zabulon_ (Boisduval & Leconte), Plate CXLVIII, Fig. 1, ♂
(The Zabulon Skipper).

Very closely related to the following species from which it may be
distinguished by its somewhat smaller size and the presence of the
heavier dark markings at the apex of the fore wings above. Expanse
1.25-1.50 inch.

Ranges from New England to Georgia and westward to the Rocky Mountains.

(3) _Atrytone hobomok_ (Harris), Plate CXLVIII, Fig. 2, ♂; variety
_pocohontas_ Scudder, Plate CXLVIII, Fig. 3, ♀ (The Hobomok Skipper).

In the male the small apical spots are not enclosed by a band of dark
color as in the preceding species, and the pale area on the middle of
the hind wings is more restricted, the inner margin of this wing being
more widely fuscous. The variety of the female called _pocohontas_ by
Dr. Scudder is melanic, and is, as shown in our figure, very dark with
conspicuous light spots in the fore wing. Expanse 1.25-1.50 inch.

Ranges from New England southward and westward over the greater part of
the Atlantic region and the valley of the Mississippi.




GENUS LEREMA SCUDDER


[Illustration: PL. CXLIX]

(1) _Lerema accius_ (Smith & Abbot), Plate CXLIX, Fig. 1, ♂ (The Grimy
Skipper).

The wings on the under side are dark fuscous clouded with still deeper
brown or black. Expanse 1.40-1.50 inch.

Occurs from Connecticut to Central America, being quite rare in the
north but very common in the hot lands of the south.

(2) _Lerema hianna_ (Scudder), Plate CXLIX, Fig. 2, ♂ (The Dusted
Skipper).

The upper side is well represented in our figure. On the under side the
wings are a little paler, especially the hind wings, which on their
outer half are dusted with gray, in certain lights having a bluish
cast. Expanse 1.15-1.25 inch.

Ranges from New England to Nebraska and southward, but, so far as the
writer knows not reaching the Gulf States.




SUBFAMILY MEGATHYMINÆ (THE GIANT SKIPPERS).


These curious insects have been by some writers placed among the
_Castniidæ_, a family of day-flying moths, but as the author stated in
1898 in “The Butterfly Book,” they appear to have much more in common
with the Hesperiidæ than the Castniidæ. The proposition to include them
in the Hesperiidæ as a subfamily under the name given above has since
that time been generally accepted by systematists. There are a number
of species belonging to the genus _Megathymus_, several of which occur
within our faunal limits, but we shall content ourselves with figuring
only the one, which those readers of this book who live in Missouri and
south and west of that state are likely to see.




GENUS MEGATHYMUS RILEY


[Illustration: PL. CL]

(1) _Megathymus yuccæ_ (Boisduval & Leconte), Plate CL, ♀ (The Yucca
Skipper).

The caterpillar of this species is a wood-borer, feeding in the pith
and on the underground roots of different species of _Yucca_. The
life history has been beautifully worked out by the late Prof. C. V.
Riley, who published a full account of his observations in his “Eighth
Annual Report of the State Entomologist of Missouri,” pp. 169 _et
seq._, and in the “Transactions of the St. Louis Academy of Science,”
Vol. III, pp. 323 _et seq._ The student will do well to refer to these
interesting papers. The figure we give on the plate is that of a female
specimen bred by Professor Riley in Missouri and presented by him to
the late W. H. Edwards, whose collection is now the property of the
writer.




INDEX OF ENGLISH OR TRIVIAL NAMES, AND COMMON TERMS


  Aaron’s Skipper, 220

  Abdomen of butterfly, 22

  Acadian Hair-streak, The, 153

  Admiral, Lorquin’s, 113;
    Red, 99, 100;
    White, 110

  Alpines, The;
    Common, 133;
    Red-streaked, 133

  American Copper, The, 161

  Angle-wings, The, 92;
    Currant, 96

  Antennæ, 13

  Aphrodite, 75

  Araxes Skipper, The, 199

  Arctics, The, 140;
    Katahdin, 141;
    Macoun’s, 142

  Arctic Skipper, The, 209

  Arizona Blackamoor, The, 134;
    Checker-spot, 85


  Bag-veins, The, 105;
    Texas, 106

  Baltimore, The, 83

  Banded Elfin, The, 156

  Banded Hair-streak, The, 153

  Banded Purple, The, 112

  Banded Reds, The, 117

  Bates’ Crescent-spot, 88

  Beauty, Karwinsky’s, 118

  Behr’s Hair-streak, 158

  Blackamoors, The, 133;
    Arizona, 134

  Blues, The, 58, 147, 162;
    Aster, 163;
    Common, 165;
    Cowper’s, 163;
    Dwarf, 167;
    Eastern-tailed, 166;
    Indian River, 168;
    Orange-margined, 164;
    Marine, 169;
    Pygmy, 167;
    Red-margined, 168;
    Scudder’s, 164;
    Silvery, 169;
    Varied, 169;
    Western-tailed, 166;
    West Indian, 167

  Blue-spots, The, 147;
    Florida, 148

  Boisduval’s Hair-streak, 152

  Brazilian Skipper, 216

  Broad-winged Skipper, 219

  Bronze Copper, The, 161

  Brown Elfin, The, 155

  Brown-margined Hair-streak, 155

  Brown, The Gemmed, 128

  Brush-footed, The, 15, 16, 58, 59

  Buckeye, The, 103

  Buff Emperor, The, 117

  Butterflies, anatomy of, 14;
    how to breed, 54;
    caterpillars of, 29;
    chrysalids of, 34;
    how to collect, 40;
    eggs of, 27;
    habits of, 13;
    life-history of, 27;
    how to mount, 47;
    how to preserve, 56

  Butterfly, Papaw, 187;
    Reef, 197


  Cabbage Butterfly, The, 173

  Cadmium Orange, The, 185

  Calicoes, The, 122;
    White-skirted, 123

  Californian Sister, The, 114

  Callippe, 79

  Camberwell Beauty, The, 97

  Camillus Crescent-spot, The, 88

  Canadian Skipper, The, 211

  Carbonate of ammonia, 43

  Carbon bisulphide, 46

  Carolinian Satyr, The, 129

  Caterpillars of butterflies, 29

  Chalcedon, 84

  Checkerling, The, 203

  Checker-spots, The, 83;
    Arizona, 85;
    Harris’s, 85;
    Least, 86;
    Macglashan’s, 84

  Chloroform, 45

  Chrysalids, 34

  Clouded Wood-nymph, The, 137

  Clytie Hair-streak, 159

  Cobweb Skipper, The, 212

  Colorado Hair-streak, The, 150

  Colorado Parnassian, The, 186

  Comma Butterfly, The, 93

  Common, Alpine, 133;
    Blue, 165;
    Hair-streak, 151;
    Snout-butterfly, 143;
    Sulphur, 180;
    White, 172;
    Wood-nymph, 136

  Compton Tortoise, The, 98

  Coppers, The, 58, 147, 160;
    American, 161;
    Bronze, 161;
    Great, 160;
    Least, 161;
    Purplish, 162

  Coral Hair-streak, 158

  Cork for lining boxes, 45, 57

  Couper’s Blue, 163

  Creole, The, 126

  Crescent-spots, The, 86;
    Bates, 88;
    Camillus, 88;
    Meadow, 88;
    Painted, 89;
    Pearl, 87;
    Poey’s, 90;
    Texan, 90

  Crimson-patch, The, 91

  Currant Angle-wing, The, 96

  Cyanide of potash, 42


  Dagger-wings, The, 107

  Dark Wood-nymph, The, 138

  Dash-wing, The, 119

  Delila, 69

  Diana, 74

  Dingy Purple-wing, The, 105

  Dog-face Butterflies, The, 179;
    Southern, 179

  Dreamy Dusky-wing, The, 205

  Dun, Iowa, 210;
    Little, 209

  Dun Skipper, The, 218

  Dusky-wings, The, 201;
    Dreamy, 205;
    Funereal, 207;
    Horace’s, 207;
    Juvenal’s, 206;
    Lucilius’, 205;
    Martial’s, 207;
    Northern, 201;
    Petronius, 206;
    Sleepy, 205;
    Southern, 201

  Dusted Skipper, 222

  Dwarf, Yellow, 175;
    Blue, 167


  Early Hair-streak, The, 157

  Eastern Swallow-tail, The, 193

  Eastern-tailed Blue, 166

  Edwards’ Hair-streak, 152;
    Marble-wing, 177

  Eggs of butterflies, 27

  Elfin, Banded, 156;
    Brown, 155;
    Hoary, 156

  Emperor Butterflies, The, 114;
    Buff, 117;
    Red, 116;
    Tawny, 116

  Envelopes for holding butterflies, 45

  Eufala Skipper, 216

  Eye, The pearly, 126

  Eyed Nymphs, The, 125


  Fairy Yellow, The, 184

  Falcate Orange-tip, The, 176

  Faun, The, 93

  Fawn-edged Skipper, 217

  Feet of butterflies, 16

  Fiery Skipper, 215

  Florida Blue-spot, The, 148

  Florida White, The, 171;
    Yellow, 183

  Fritillary, The Great-Spangled, 75;
    Gulf, 70;
    Little, 80;
    Meadow, 82;
    Mexican, 72;
    Regal, 73;
    Silver-bordered, 81;
    White Mountain, 81;
    Variegated, 71

  Funereal Dusky-wing, 207


  Gemmed Brown, The, 128

  Georgian Satyr, The, 128

  Giant Skippers, The, 222

  Giant Swallow-tail, The, 192

  Goat-weed Butterfly, The, 121;
    Morrison’s, 121

  Godart’s Sulphur, 178

  Golden-banded Skipper, The, 202

  Golden Skipper, The, 211

  Grass-nymph, The, 126, 127

  Great, Copper, 160;
    Purple Hair-streak, 149;
    Southern
    White, 172

  Green White-spotted Hair-streak, 158

  Grimy Skipper, 222

  Grizzled Skipper, 203

  Gulf Yellow, The, 183


  Hackberry Butterfly, The, 115

  Hair-streaks, The, 22, 58, 147, 148;
    Acadian, 153;
    Banded, 153;
    Bahr’s, 158;
    Boisduval, 152;
    Brown-Margined, 155;
    Clytie, 159;
    Colorado, 150;
    Coral, 158;
    Common, 151;
    Early, 157;
    Edwards’, 152;
    Great Purple, 149;
    Green White-spotted, 158;
    Henry’s, 157;
    Olive, 154;
    Southern, 150;
    Striped, 154;
    Texas, 151;
    White-M, 149;
    Wittfeld’s, 151

  Harris’ Checker-spot, 85

  Harvester, The, 34, 159

  Hayhurst’s Sooty-wing, 204

  Head of butterfly, 14

  Heliconians, The, 61, 67

  Henry’s Hair-streak, 157

  Hesperids, The, 199

  Hoary-edge, The, 201

  Hoary Elfin, The, 156

  Hobomok Skipper, 221

  Horace’s Dusky-wing, 207

  Hunter’s Butterfly, 100


  Indian Skipper, The, 212

  Indian River Blue, 168

  Iowa Dun, The, 210

  Iowa Skipper, 220

  Ithomiids, 22, 61, 64


  Jars for poisoning insects, 42

  Julia, 69

  Juvenal’s Dusky-wing, 206


  Karwinsky’s Beauty, 118

  Katahdin Arctic, The, 141

  Klug’s Dircenna, 66

  Least, Checker-spot, 86;
    Copper, 161;
    Skipper, 210;
    Wood-nymph, 139

  Legs of butterflies, 15

  Leonard’s Skipper, 213

  Leopard-spots, The, 106

  Leto, 74

  Little Dun, The, 209

  Little Metal-mark, The, 145

  Little Sulphur, The, 183

  Little Wood-satyr, The, 129

  Long-dash, The, 214

  Long-tailed Skipper, The, 200

  Lorquin’s Admiral, 113

  Lucilius’ Dusky-wing, 205

  Lycaste Butterfly, 65


  Macglashan’s Checker-spot, 84

  Macoun’s Arctic, 142

  Magnolia Swallow-tail, The, 193

  Malachites, The, 123;
    Pearly, 124

  Many-spot, The, 146

  Marble-wings, The, 177;
    Edwards’, 177;
    Rosy, 177

  Marine Blue, 169

  Martial’s Dusky-wing, 207

  Meadow, Crescent-spot, The, 88;
    Fritillary, 82

  Mead’s Satyr, 138

  Metal-marks, The, 16, 58, 144;
    Little, 145;
    Northern, 145

  Mexican Yellow, The, 183

  Milbert’s Tortoise-shell, 98

  Milkweed Butterfly, 36

  Mimic, The, 109

  Mohave Sooty-wing, The, 204

  Monarch, The, 63

  Mormons, The, 145;
    Palmer’s, 145

  Morrison’s Goat-weed Butterfly, 121

  Mountain Silver-spot, The, 78;
    Swallow-tail, 196

  Mourning Cloak, The, 97

  Mulberry-wing, The, 219

  Mustard White, The, 173


  Nets, for taking butterflies, 40

  Newfoundland Swallow-tail, The, 195

  New Mexican Sooty-wing, The, 204

  Northern Dusky-wing, The, 201

  Northern Metal-Mark, The, 145

  Nova Scotian, The, 141


  Ochre Ringlet, The, 131

  Ocola Skipper, 216

  Olive Hair-streak, 154

  Orange-banded Red, The, 118

  Orange-margined Blue, The, 164

  Orange, Cadmium, 185

  Orange, Small, 182

  Orange Sulphur, The, 181

  Orange-tips, The, 175;
    Falcate, 176;
    Lucas, 177;
    Western, 176


  Pacific Tiger, 191

  Painted Crescent-spot, The, 89

  Painted Lady, The, 99, 102

  Palatka Skipper, 218

  Palmer’s Mormon, 145

  Pamphilids, The, 208

  Papaw Butterfly, The, 187

  Parnassians, The, 185

  Parnassian, Colorado, 186

  Patch-spots, The, 91

  Peacock Butterflies, 102

  Peacock, The White, 104

  Pearl Crescent, The, 87

  Pearly Eye, The, 126

  Pearly Malachite, The, 124

  Peck’s Skipper, 215

  Pepper-and-salt Skipper, 209

  Petronius’ Dusky-wing, 206

  Pinching butterflies to disable them, 43

  Pins, insect, 47

  Pipe-vine Swallow-tail, The, 197

  Plain Ringlet, The, 131

  Poey’s Crescent-spot, 90

  Pontiac’s Skipper, 217

  Proboscis of butterflies, 14

  Purple, The Banded, 112

  Purple, The Red-spotted, 111

  Purple-wing, The Dingy, 105

  Purplish Copper, The, 162

  Pygmy Blue, 167


  Queen, The, 64

  Question-sign, The, 93


  Reakirt’s Satyr, 139

  Red Admiral, The, 99, 100

  Red Emperor, The, 116

  Red-margined Blue, 168

  Red, The Orange-banded, 118

  Red Satyr, The, 130

  Red-spotted Purple, The, 111

  Red-streaked Alpine, The, 133

  Reds, The Banded, 117

  Reef Butterfly, The, 197

  Relaxing dried butterflies, 52

  Rhodope, 80

  Ridings’ Satyr, 134

  Ringlets, The, 130

  Ringlet, The Ochre, 131;
    The Plain, 131

  Roadside Skipper, The, 208

  Rosy Marble-wing, The, 117


  Sachem, The, 214

  Satyrs, The, 61, 124;
    Carolinian, 129;
    Georgian, 128;
    Mead’s, 138;
    Reakirt’s, 139;
    Red, 130;
    Ridings’, 134;
    Scudder’s, 135

  Scales on wings of butterflies, 10

  Scudder’s, Blue, 164;
    Satyr, 135

  Setting blocks, 47

  Silver-spot, The Mountain, 78

  Sisters, The, 114;
    Californian, 114

  Skippers, The, 22, 58, 198;
    Aaron’s, 220;
    Araxes, 199;
    Arctic, 209;
    Brazilian, 216;
    Broad-winged, 219;
    Canadian, 211;
    Cobweb, 212;
    Dun, 218;
    Dusted, 222;
    Eufala, 216;
    Fawn-edged, 217;
    Fiery, 215;

    Giant, 222;
    Golden, 211;
    Golden-banded, 202;
    Grimy, 222;
    Grizzled, 203;
    Hoary-edge, 201;
    Hobomok, 221;
    Indian, 212;
    Iowa, 220;
    Least, 210;
    Leonard’s, 213;
    Long-tailed, 200;
    Ocola, 216;
    Palatka, 218;
    Peck’s, 215;
    Pepper-and-salt, 209;
    Pontiac’s, 217;
    Red-tailed, 199;
    Roadside, 208;
    Silver-spotted, 200;
    Tessellated, 202;
    Uncas’, 213;
    Vernal, 218;
    Wisconsin, 212;
    Woven-winged, 209;
    Wright’s, 211;
    Yucca, 223;
    Zabulon, 221

  Sleepy Dusky-wing, 205

  Small, Orange, The, 182;
    Wood-nymph, 137

  Snout-butterflies, The, 61, 142, 143;
    Common, 143

  Sooty-wings, The, 203;
    Catullus’, 203;
    Common, 203;
    Hayhurst’s, 204;
    Mohave, 204;
    New Mexican, 204

  Southern, Dog-face, 179;
    Dusky-wing, 201;
    Hair-streak, 150;
    Wood-nymph, 136

  Spangled-Nymphs, The, 127

  Spice-bush Swallow-tail, The, 193

  Striped Hair-streak, The, 154

  Sulphurs, The, 179;
    Common, 180;
    Cloudless, 178;
    Godart’s, 178;
    Little, 183;
    Great, 177;
    Orange, 181

  Swallow-tails, The, 58, 170, 186;
    Eastern, 193;
    Giant, 192;
    Magnolia, 193;
    Mountain, 196;
    Newfoundland, 195;
    Pipe-vine, 197;
    Pacific Tiger, 191;
    Spice-bush, 193;
    Three-tailed, 192;
    Tiger, 188;
    Two-tailed, 191;
    Western, 196;
    White-striped
    Tiger, 191


  Tawny Emperor, The, 116

  Tessellated Skipper, The, 202

  Texan Crescent-spot, The, 90

  Texas, Bag-vein, The, 106;
    Hair-streak, 151

  Thistle-butterfly, The, 102

  Thorax of butterfly, 15

  Three-tailed Swallow-tail, 192

  Tiger, Pacific, 191

  Tiger Swallow-tail, The, 191

  Toper, The, 95

  Tortoise-shells, The, 96;
    Compton, 98;
    Milbert’s, 98

  Tropic Queens, The, 108

  Two-tailed Swallow-tail, 191


  Uncas’ Skipper, 213


  Varied Blue, 169

  Vernal Skipper, 218

  Viceroy, The, 103

  Violet-wings, The, 104


  Waiter, The, 108

  Western, Swallow-tail, The, 196;
    Tailed Blue, 166;
    Orange-tip, 176

  West Indian Blue, 167

  Whirlabout, The, 213

  Whites, The, 171;
    Cabbage, 173;
    Common, 172;
    Florida, 171;
    Great Southern, 172;
    Mustard, 173

  White Admirals, The, 110

  White-M Hair-streak, The, 149

  White Mountain Butterfly, The, 141

  White Mountain Fritillary, The, 81

  White Peacock, The, 104

  White-skirted Calico, The, 123

  White-striped Tiger Swallow-tail, 191

  Wings of butterflies, 16

  Wisconsin Skipper, The, 212

  Wittfeld’s Hair-streak, 151

  Wood-nymphs, The, 135;
    Clouded, 137;
    Common, 136;
    Dark, 138;
    Least, 139;
    Small, 137;
    Southern, 136

  Wood-satyr, The Little, 129

  Woven-winged Skipper, 209

  Wright’s Skipper, 211


  Yellows, The, 181;
    Dwarf, 175;
    Fairy, 184;
    Florida, 183;
    Gulf, 183;
    Mexican, 183

  Yucca Skipper, 223


  Zabulon Skipper, 221

  Zebra, The, 67




  INDEX OF FAMILIES, SUBFAMILIES, GENERA, AND SPECIES, ACCORDING
  TO THEIR SCIENTIFIC OR LATIN NAMES


  aaroni, Phycanassa, 220

  acadica, Thecla, 153

  accius, Lerema, 222

  Achalarus, genus, 201;
    cellus, 202;
    lycidas, 201

  acheronta, Cœa, 119

  acmon, Lycæna, 168

  Adelpha, californica, 114

  Ageronia, feronia, 123;
    fornax, 123

  Aganisthos, odius, 119

  ajax, Papilio, 187

  aliaska, Papilio, 195

  alicia, Chlorippe, 117

  alope, Satyrus, 137

  alpheus, Pholisora, 204

  Amblyscirtes, genus, 208;
    samoset, 209;
    textor, 209;
    vialis, 10, 208

  ammon, Lycæna, 168

  amymone, Cystineura, 106

  amyntula, Lycæna, 166

  Anartia, genus, 103;
    jatrophæ, 104

  Ancyloxypha, genus, 210;
    numitor, 210

  andria, Pyrrhanæa, 121

  Anosia, genus, 62, 63;
    berenice, 64;
    plexippus, 10, 20, 30, 36, 63

  antiopa, Vanessa, 97

  aphrodite, Argynnis, 75

  Apodemia, genus, 145;
    palmeri, 145

  araxes, Pyrrhopyge, 199
  Argynnis, genus, 20, 72;
    aphrodite, 10, 75;
    atlantis, 78;
    callippe, 79;
    cybele, 75;
    diana, 74;
    idalia, 10, 73;
    leto, 74;
    rhodope, 80

  arthemis, Basilarchia, 112

  Arthropoda, Subkingdom, 12

  aster, Lycæna, 163

  asterias, Papilio, 195

  asterius, Papilio, 195

  astyanax, Basilarchia, 111

  atala, Eumæus, 148

  atalanta, Pyrameis, 100

  Atalopedes, genus, 214;
    huron, 214

  atlantis, Argynnis, 78

  Atrytone, genus, 220;
    hobomok, 221;
    pocohontas, 221;
    vitellius, 220;
    zabulon, 221

  attalus, Erynnis, 212

  augustus, Thecla, 155

  autolycus, Thecla, 151

  ausonides, Euchloë, 176


  bachmani, Libythea, 143

  Basilarchia, genus, 110;
    arthemis, 112;
    astyanax, 10, 111;
    disippus, 30, 113;
    lorquini, 113;
    Weidemeyeri, 112

  batesi, Phyciodes, 88

  bathyllus, Thorybes, 201

  behri, Thecla, 158

  bellona, Brenthis, 82

  berenice, Anosia, 64

  borealis, Charis, 145

  Brenthis, genus, 80;
    bellona, 82;
    montinus, 81;
    myrina, 81

  brettus, Thymelicus, 213

  brevicauda, Papilio, 195

  brizo, Thanaos, 205

  bryoniæ, Pieris, 173


  cænius, Charis, 145

  cæsonia, Meganostoma, 179

  calanus, Thecla, 153

  californica, Adelpha, 114

  Callicore, genus, 106;
    clymena, 107

  callippe, Argynnis, 79

  Calpodes, genus, 216;
    ethlius, 216

  camillus, Phyciodes, 88

  canthus, Satyrodes, 127

  cardui, Pyrameis, 102

  Catopsilia, genus, 177;
    eubule, 178

  catullus, Pholisora, 203

  cellus, Achalarus, 202

  celtis, Chlorippe, 115

  centaureæ, Hesperia, 203

  Ceratinia lycaste, 65

  chalcedon, Melitæa, 84

  Charis, genus, 144;
    borealis, 145;
    cænius, 145

  charithonius, Heliconius, 67

  charon, Satyrus, 138

  Chlorippe, genus, 114;
    alicia, 117;
    celtis, 115;
    clyton, 116;
    flora, 116

  Chrysophanus, genus, 160;
    epixanthe, 161;
    helloides, 162;
    hypophlæus, 161;
    thoë, 161;
    xanthoides, 160

  claudia, Euptoieta, 71

  clymena, Callicore, 107

  clytie, Thecla, 159

  clyton, Chlorippe, 116

  Cœa, genus, 119;
    acheronta, 119

  cœnia, Junonia, 103

  Cœnonympha, genus, 130;
    inornata, 131;
    ochracea, 131

  Colænis, genus, 69;
    delila, 69;
    julia, 69

  Colias, genus, 179;
    eurytheme, 181;
    keewaydin, 181;
    philodice, 180

  comma, Grapta, 93

  comyntas, Lycæna, 166

  Copœodes, genus, 211;
    procris, 211;
    wrighti, 211

  coresia, Timetes, 108

  couperi, Lycæna, 163

  creola, Debis, 126

  cresphontes, Papilio, 192

  crysalus, Thecla, 150

  cybele, Argynnis, 75

  Cystineura, genus, 105;
    amymone, 106


  damon, Thecla, 154

  daunus, Papilio, 191

  Debis, genus, 125;
    creola, 126;
    portlandia, 126

  delia, Terias, 183

  delila, Colænis, 69

  diana, Argynnis, 74

  Dione vanillæ, 70

  dionysius, Neominois, 135

  Dircenna klugi, 66

  discoidalis, Erebia, 133

  discoidalis, Thecla, 155

  disippus, Basilarchia, 30, 113

  dumetorum, Thecla, 158

  dymas, Melitæa, 86


  edwardsi, Thecla 152

  elathea, Terias, 183

  Epargyreus, genus, 200;
    tityrus, 200

  epipsodea, Erebia, 133

  epixanthe, Chrysophanus, 161

  Erebia, genus, 132;
    discoidalis, 133;
    epipsodea, 133

  Eresia, genus, 89;
    frisia, 90;
    texana, 90

  Erycinidæ, Family, 16, 58, 144

  Erynnis, genus, 211;
    attalus, 212;
    leonardus, 213;
    manitoba, 211;
    metea, 212;
    sassacus, 212;
    uncas, 213

  ethlius, Calpodes, 216

  eubule, Catopsilia, 178

  Euchloë, genus, 175;
    ausonides, 176;
    genutia, 176;
    hyantis, 177;
    rosa, 177;
    sara, 177

  Eudamus, genus, 200;
    proteus, 200

  eufala, Lerodea, 216

  Eumæus, genus, 147;
    atala, 148;
    minyas, 148

  Eunica, genus, 104;
    monima, 105

  Euphyes, genus, 218;
    metacomet, 218;
    verna, 218

  Euplœinæ, Subfamily, 61, 62

  Euptoieta claudia, 71

  eurydice, Meganostoma, 179

  eurymedon, Papilio, 191

  eurytheme, Colias, 181

  eurytus, Neonympha, 129

  exilis, Lycæna, 167


  fabricii, Grapta, 93

  faunus, Grapta, 93

  favonius, Thecla, 150

  Feniseca, genus, 159;
    tarquinius, 34, 160

  feronia, Ageronia, 123

  flora, Chlorippe, 116

  fornax, Ageronia, 123

  frisia, Eresia, 90

  funeralis, Thanaos, 207


  garita, Oarisma, 209

  gemma, Neonympha, 128

  genutia, Euchloë, 176

  glaucus, Papilio, 188

  Grapta, genus, 20, 92;
    comma, 93;
    fabricii, 93;
    faunus, 93;
    interrogationis, 93;
    progne, 96;
    silenus, 95

  grunus, Thecla, 152

  Gyrocheilus, genus, 133;
    tritonia, 134


  halesus, Thecla, 149

  harrisi, Melitæa, 85

  hayhursti, Pholisora, 204

  Heliconiinæ, Subfamily, 61, 67

  Heliconius charithonius, 67

  helloides, Chrysophanus, 162

  henrici, Thecla, 157

  Hesperia, genus, 202;
    centaureæ, 203;
    tessellata, 202;
    xanthus, 203

  Hesperiidæ, Family, 22, 36, 58, 198

  Hesperiinæ, Subfamily, 199

  Heterocera, Suborder, 12, 13

  heteronea, Lycæna, 169

  hianna, Lerema, 222

  hobomok, Atrytone, 221

  horatius, Thanaos, 207

  huntera, Pyrameis, 100

  huron, Atalopedes, 214

  hyantis, Euchloë, 177

  Hylephila, genus, 215;
    phylæus, 215

  Hypanartia, genus, 117;
    lethe, 118

  Hypolimnas, genus, 108;
    misippus, 109

  hypophlæus, Chrysophanus, 161


  icelus, Thanaos, 205

  idalia, Argynnis, 73

  ilaire, Tachyris, 171

  indra, Papilio, 196

  inornata, Cœnonympha, 131

  Insecta, Class, 59

  interrogationis, Grapta, 93

  iole, Nathalis, 175

  irus, Thecla, 156

  isophthalma, Lycæna, 167

  Ithomiinæ, Subfamily, 61, 64


  j-album, Vanessa, 98

  janais, Synchloë, 91

  jatrophæ, Anartia, 104

  jucunda, Terias, 184

  julia, Colænis, 69

  Junonia, genus, 102;
    cœnia, 103

  jutta, Œneis, 141

  Juvenalis, Thanaos, 206


  karwinskii, Smyrna, 118

  katahdin, Œneis, 141

  keewaydin, Colias, 181

  klugi, Dircenna, 66

  Kricogonia, genus, 178;
    lyside, 178;
    terissa, 178


  læta, Thecla, 157

  leonardus, Erynnis, 213

  Lepidoptera, Order, 59

  Lerema, genus, 222;
    accius, 222;
    hianna, 222

  Lerodea, genus, 216;
    eufala, 216

  lethe, Hypanartia, 118

  leto, Argynnis, 74

  libya, Pholisora, 204

  Libythea, genus, 143;
    bachmani, 143

  Libytheinæ, Subfamily, 61, 142

  Limochores, genus, 217;
    palatka, 218;
    pontiac, 217;
    thaumas, 217

  liparops, Thecla, 154

  lisa, Terias, 183

  lorquini, Basilarchia, 113

  lucia, Lycæna, 165

  lucilius, Thanaos, 205

  Lycæna, genus, 162;
    acmon, 168;
    ammon, 168;
    amyntula, 166;
    aster, 163;
    comyntas, 166;
    couperi, 163;
    exilis, 167;
    heteronea, 169;
    isophthalma, 167;
    lucia, 165;
    lygdamus, 169;
    marginata, 165;
    marina, 169;
    melissa, 164;
    neglecta, 165;
    nigra, 165;
    pseudargiolus, 165;
    scudderi, 164;
    theona, 167

  Lycænidæ, Family, 16, 58, 147

  lycaste, Ceratinia, 65

  lycidas, Achalarus, 201

  lygdamus, Lycæna, 169

  lyside, Kricogonia, 178


  m-album, Thecla, 149

  macglashani, Melitæa, 84

  machaon, Papilio, 195

  macouni, Œneis, 142

  mandan, Pamphila, 209

  manitoba, Erynnis, 211

  marcellus, Papilio, 187

  marcia, Phyciodes, 87

  marginata, Lycæna, 165

  marina, Lycæna, 169

  martialis, Thanaos, 207

  massasoit, Poanes, 219

  meadi, Satyrus, 138

  Meganostoma, genus, 179;
    cæsonia, 179;
    eurydice, 179

  Megathyminæ, Subfamily, 222

  Megathymus, genus, 223;
    yuccæ, 223

  melinus, Thecla, 151

  melissa, Lycæna, 164

  Melitæa, genus, 83;
    chalcedon, 84;
    dymas, 86;
    harrisi, 85;
    macglashani, 84;
    perse, 85;
    phaëton, 83

  metacomet, Euphyes, 218

  metea, Erynnis, 212

  mexicana, Terias, 183

  milberti, Vanessa, 98

  minyas, Eumæus, 148

  misippus, Hypolimnas, 109

  monima, Eunica, 105

  montinus, Brenthis, 81

  monuste, Pieris, 172

  Morphinæ, Subfamily, 60

  morrisoni, Pyrrhanæa, 121

  myrina, Brenthis, 81

  mystic, Thymelicus, 214


  nais, Polystigma, 146

  napi, Pieris, 173

  Nathalis, genus, 175;
    iole, 175

  neglecta, Lycæna, 165

  Neominois, genus, 134;
    dionysius, 135;
    ridingsi, 134

  Neonympha, genus, 127;
    eurytus, 129;
    gemma, 128;
    phocion, 128;
    rubricata, 130;
    sosybius, 129

  nephele, Satyrus, 137

  nicippe, Terias, 182

  nigra, Lycæna, 165

  niphon, Thecla, 156

  numitor, Ancyloxypha, 210

  nycteis, Phyciodes, 87

  Nymphalidæ, Family, 15, 16, 36, 58, 59

  Nymphalinæ, Subfamily, 61, 68


  Oarisma, genus, 209;
    garita, 209;
    powesheik, 210

  ochracea, Cœnonympha, 131

  ocola, Prenes, 216

  odius, Aganisthos, 119

  Œneis, genus, 140;
    jutta, 141;
    katahdin, 141;
    macouni, 142;
    semidea, 141

  oleracea, Pieris, 173

  otho, Thymelicus, 213


  palamedes, Papilio, 193

  palatka, Limochores, 218

  pallida, Pieris, 173

  palmeri, Apodemia, 145

  Pamphila, genus, 209;
    mandan, 209

  Pamphilinæ, Subfamily, 208

  Papilio, genus, 10, 20, 187;
    ajax, 187;
    aliaska, 195;
    asterias, 195;
    asterius, 195;
    brevicauda, 195;
    cresphontes, 192;
    daunus, 191;
    eurymedon, 191;
    glaucus, 188;
    indra, 196;
    machaon, 195;
    marcellus, 187;
    palamedes, 193;
    philenor, 30, 36, 197;
    pilumnus, 192;
    polydamas, 197;
    polyxenes, 193;
    rutulus, 191;
    troilus, 193;
    turnus, 10, 188;
    walshi, 187;
    zelicaon, 196;
    zolicaon, 197

  Papilionidæ, Family, 58, 170

  Papilioninæ, Subfamily, 186

  Paramecera, genus, 139;
    xicaque, 139

  Parnassiinæ, Subfamily, 185

  Parnassius, genus, 20, 186;
    smintheus, 186

  paulus, Satyrus, 137

  peckius, Polites, 215

  pegala, Satyrus, 136

  perse, Melitæa, 85

  petronius, Thanaos, 206

  phaëton, Melitæa, 83

  philenor, Papilio, 30, 36, 197

  philodice, Colias, 180

  phocion, Neonympha, 128

  Pholisora, genus, 203;
    alpheus, 204;
    catullus, 203;
    hayhursti, 204;
    libya, 204

  Phycanassa, genus, 219;
    aaroni, 220;
    viator, 219

  Phyciodes, genus, 86;
    batesi, 88;
    camillus, 88;
    marcia, 87;
    nycteis, 87;
    picta, 89;
    pratensis, 88;
    tharos, 87

  phylæus, Hylephila, 215

  picta, Phyciodes, 89

  Pierinæ, Subfamily, 170

  Pieris, genus, 171;
    bryoniæ, 173;
    monuste, 172;
    napi, 173;
    oleracea, 173;
    pallida, 173;
    protodice, 172;
    rapæ, 173

  pilumnus, Papilio, 192

  plexippus, Anosia, 10, 20, 30, 36, 63

  Poanes, genus, 219;
    massasoit, 219

  pocohontas, Atrytone, 221

  Polites, genus, 215;
    peckius, 215

  polydamas, Papilio, 197

  Polystigma, genus, 146;
    nais, 146

  polyxenes, Papilio, 193

  pontiac, Limochores, 217

  portlandia, Debis, 126

  powesheik, Oarisma, 210

  pratensis, Phyciodes, 88

  Prenes, genus, 216;
    ocola, 216

  procris, Copœodes, 211

  progne, Grapta, 96

  proterpia, Terias, 185

  proteus, Eudamus, 200

  protodice, Pieris, 172

  pseudargiolus, Lycæna, 165

  pylades, Thorybes, 201

  Pyrameis, genus, 99;
    atalanta, 100;
    cardui, 102;
    huntera, 100

  Pyrrhanæa, genus, 120;
    andria, 121;
    morrisoni, 121

  Pyrrhopyge, genus, 199;
    araxes, 199

  Pyrrhopyginæ, Subfamily, 199


  rapæ, Pieris, 173

  rhodope, Argynnis, 80

  Rhopalocera, Suborder, 12, 13

  ridingsi, Neominois, 134

  rosa, Euchloë, 177

  rubricata, Neonympha, 130

  rutulus, Papilio, 191


  samoset, Amblyscirtes, 209

  sara, Euchloë, 177

  sassacus, Erynnis, 212

  Satyrinæ, Subfamily, 60, 61, 124

  Satyrodes, genus, 126;
    canthus, 127

  Satyrus, genus, 135;
    alope, 137;
    charon, 138;
    meadi, 138;
    nephele, 137;
    paulus, 137;
    pegala, 136;
    sthenele, 139

  scudderi, Lycæna, 164

  semidea, Œneis, 141

  silenus, Grapta, 95

  simæthis, Thecla, 155

  smintheus, Parnassius, 186

  Smyrna, genus, 20, 118;
    karwinskii, 118

  sosybius, Neonympha, 129

  steneles, Victorina, 124

  sthenele, Satyrus, 139

  Synchloë, genus, 91;
    janais, 91


  Tachyris, genus, 171;
    ilaire, 171

  tarquinius, Feniseca, 34, 160

  Terias, genus, 181;
    delia, 183;
    elathea, 183;
    jucunda, 184;
    lisa, 183;
    mexicana, 183;
    nicippe, 182;
    proterpia, 185

  terissa, Kricogonia, 178

  tessellata, Hesperia, 202

  texana, Eresia, 90

  textor, Amblyscirtes, 209

  Thanaos, genus, 205;
    brizo, 205;
    funeralis, 207;
    horatius, 207;
    icelus, 205;
    juvenalis, 206;
    lucilius, 205;
    martialis, 207;
    petronius, 206

  tharos, Phyciodes, 87

  thaumas, Limochores, 217

  Thecla, genus, 20, 22, 148;
    acadica, 153;
    augustus, 155;
    autolycus, 151;
    behri, 158;
    calanus, 153;
    clytie, 159;
    crysalus, 150;
    damon, 154;
    discoidalis, 155;
    dumetorum, 158;
    edwardsi, 152;
    favonius, 150;
    grunus, 152;
    halesus, 149;
    henrici, 157;
    irus, 156;
    læta, 157;
    liparops, 154;
    m-album, 149;
    melinus, 151;
    niphon, 156;
    simæthis, 155;
    titus, 158;
    wittfeldi, 151

  theona, Lycæna, 167

  thoë, Chrysophanus, 161

  Thorybes, genus, 201;
    bathyllus, 201;
    pylades, 201

  Thymelicus, genus, 213;
    brettus, 213;
    mystic, 214;
    otho, 213

  Timetes, genus, 107;
    coresia, 108

  titus, Thecla, 158

  tityrus, Epargyreus, 200

  tritonia, Gyrocheilus, 134

  troilus, Papilio, 193

  turnus, Papilio, 20, 188


  uncas, Erynnis, 213


  Vanessa, genus, 96;
    antiopa, 97;
    j-album, 98;
    milberti, 98

  vanillæ, Dione, 70

  verna, Euphyes, 218

  vialis, Amblyscirtes, 208

  viator, Phycanassa, 219

  Victorina, genus, 123;
    steneles, 124

  vitellius, Atrytone, 220


  walshi, Papilio, 187

  weidemeyeri, Basilarchia, 112

  wittfeldi, Thecla, 151

  wrighti, Copœodes, 211


  xanthoides, Chrysophanus, 160

  xanthus, Hesperia, 203

  xicaque, Paramecera, 139


  yuccæ, Megathymus, 223


  zabulon, Atrytone, 221

  zelicaon, Papilio, 196

  zolicaon, Papilio, 197




  THE BUTTERFLY BOOK

  By Dr. W. J. HOLLAND


  This book on American butterflies, by Dr. W. J. Holland, has
  introduced thousands of readers to the delightful study of
  butterflies and their development. Its 48 color plates are the best
  which have been produced by the three-color process. In these and
  the text cuts are shown more than five hundred different species.
  Dr. Holland’s collection of these insects is the best in the United
  States, barring none, and he has throughout used his own specimens in
  preparing the plates. Chapters showing how to collect and preserve
  butterflies add greatly to the value of the book. It contains 382
  text pages, 10 pages of index.

  Attractively bound in green cloth, decorated in gold. Size of
  volume 7 × 10.


  =Price, $3.00 net; $3.30 postpaid=




  THE MOTH BOOK

  By Dr. W. J. HOLLAND


  This book serves as an introduction to the study of moths, but the
  student who has fully mastered the contents is as far advanced in
  his studies as are many men who were a few years ago regarded as
  eminent specialists. It is the standard reference book of North America
  on the subject.

  Dr. Holland, Director of the Carnegie Museum, Pittsburgh, is one of
  the leading entomologists of the country and has had more experience in
  mounting and artistically posing moths and butterflies than any other
  living man.

  There are 1,500 figures in the color plates and 300 text cuts
  illustrating 1,800 species of the moths of North America. This volume
  is the most complete on the subject which has thus far appeared, and
  contains 479 pages. Size 7 × 10.


  =Price, $4.00 net; $4.40 postpaid=




  THE BIRD BOOK

  By CHESTER A. REED, B. S.


  Mr. Reed’s new bird book is the most complete guide he has yet made.
  Unlike the pocket guides which though ideal for field work, cannot
  because of their size give all the details the student wishes, this
  book is a whole reference library about birds and their haunts. It
  contains illustrations in colors of more than seven hundred birds of
  all varieties from all parts of the country which show the birds more
  than an inch in height so that every detail of real life is faithfully
  reproduced. In addition to these illustrations in color there are many
  hundreds more showing the eggs in life size, and numerous unusual
  photographs of birds in flight and in their natural haunts.

     =More than 700 illustrations in color and many unusual Bird
                      Photographs. Net, $3.00=




  THE TREE GUIDE

  By JULIA ELLEN ROGERS _Author of “The Tree Book”_


  The Tree Guide is uniform in style and size with the well known pocket
  Bird Guides which have become so universally popular. It contains
  illustrations and descriptions of the trees of the country. The
  descriptions include the range, the classification, the distinctive
  features such as flowers, leaves, fruit, etc., and all other marks that
  lead to an easy identification of the tree. An ideal volume for expert
  naturalist or amateur for field work or even more exhaustive study.

         =32 illustrations in color; many in black and white.
                Cloth, net, $1.00 Leather, net, $1.25=




  CAMERA STUDIES OF WILD BIRDS IN THEIR HOMES

  By CHESTER A. REED, B.S.


  “CAMERA STUDIES” has 250 photographs of events right in birds’ homes.

  These pictures are selected from the author’s collection of over 2000
  bird photographs, this being one of the best collections of pictures of
  free, living wild birds in existence.

  Many rare and interesting poses are faithfully shown by the camera.
  For instance, a pair of adult Chipping Sparrows, standing on a branch
  by the sides of their four young, are engaged in pulling apart a large
  worm that was too large to be given whole.

  The stories accompanying these pictures are as interesting as the
  photographs and above all they are all actual facts.

  300 pages, 5½ × 7½ in.; 250 photographs of living, wild birds.

         =Handsomely bound in Cloth, $2.00 net; postage 20c.=




  WILD FLOWERS

  By CHESTER A. REED, B. S.


  A larger and more complete work than Flower Guide, with full-page
  plates showing 320 Wild Flowers in NATURAL COLORS. An original,
  beautiful, complete, interesting and accurate work on this most
  interesting of subjects.

   =450 pages. Handsomely bound in cloth. $2.50 net; postage 15c.=




  WESTERN BIRD GUIDE

  BIRDS OF THE ROCKIES AND WEST TO THE PACIFIC


  A Companion volume to the Eastern Pocket Guides. With notes
  on all the land and water birds in the Rockies and West to
  the Pacific Coast, and a colored illustration of each bird.
  It completes the Pocket Bird Guide Series for the United
  States. 255 pages, neatly boxed.

  =Bound in Sock Cloth, net, $1.00; in Leather, net, $1.25; postage 5c.=




  ILLUSTRATED BIRD DICTIONARIES


  Giving a description and an accurate pen and ink illustration of every
  bird found East of the Rocky Mountains. With a space after each bird
  for the student to make his own marginal notes.

                           =_TWO VOLUMES_=

  “=_Land Birds of Eastern North America_=”
  “=_Water Birds, Game Birds, and Birds of Prey._=”

   =Each Volume bound in strong, paper covers, 35 cents postpaid.=




  GUIDE TO TAXIDERMY


  A practical and thorough instructor in the art of mounting birds,
  mammals, head, fish, etc. We have an illustrated prospectus for those
  interested. Fully illustrated; cloth bound; 310 pages.

  =$1.65 postpaid.=




  WATER BIRDS

  By CHESTER A. REED, B. S.


  This book is uniform in size and scope with LAND BIRDS. It includes all
  of the Water Birds, Game Birds and Birds of Prey, east of the Rockies.
  Each species is ILLUSTRATED IN COLOR from oil paintings; the bird, its
  habits and nesting habits are described.

  The pictures show more than 230 birds in color, every species found
  in our range. They exceed in number those in any other bird book.
  In quality they cannot be surpassed—exquisite gems, each with an
  attractive background, typical of the habitat of the species.

  “LAND BIRDS” and “WATER BIRDS” are the only books, regardless of price,
  that describe and show in color every bird. 250 pages, neatly boxed.

  =Bound in Cloth, $1.00 net; in Leather, $1.25 net; postage 5c.=




  NATURE STUDIES—BIRDS

  By CHESTER A. REED, B. S.


  Just the sort of reading that will start the young folks along the
  right paths in the study of birds. True stories of bird life as
  narrated in an interesting form by Uncle George to Dorothy and Dick.

  Size—5½ × 7½ in.; 112 pages. Illustrations—Forty in color.

  =Neatly bound in Gray Cloth, 60c. net; postage 10c.=




  AMERICAN GAME BIRDS

  By CHESTER A. REED, B. S.


   Certain species and families of our wild birds are classed as game
  and can, at certain seasons, be legally hunted for sport or for
  food. A great number of books have been written for sportsmen and by
  sportsmen, most of them containing but a very few black and white
  illustrations of some of the species mentioned. As far as we know,
  AMERICAN GAME BIRDS is the _only_ sportsman’s book illustrating
  nearly all of these birds in NATURAL COLORS. With it, the novice can
  identify any game bird he secures or sees, and the old-timer, as
  well, can see just what sportsmen in other sections of the country
  are shooting. The illustrations are excellent reproductions by the
  very best process from water-color paintings made directly from the
  birds.

  The text portrays their habits just as truly as the pictures do their
  appearance, and the two together give the reader a correct impression
  of each species, such as can be gained in no other way except by
  long association with the birds. Mr. Reed knows birds as few others
  do, and has hunted, studied and photographed them from Labrador to
  Florida, and from the Atlantic to the Pacific.

  More than 100 species illustrated in natural colors.

  =In handsome Paper Covers, 60c. net; postage, 5c.=




                      [Illustration: (colophon)]


                        THE COUNTRY LIFE PRESS
                          GARDEN CITY, N. Y.




  TRANSCRIBER’S NOTE


  Illustrations in this eBook have been positioned between paragraphs
  and outside quotations.

  Illustrations without captions have had a description added, this is
  denoted with parentheses.

  The index was not checked for proper alphabetization or correct page
  references.

  Obvious typographical errors and punctuation errors have been
  corrected after careful comparison with other occurrences within the
  text and consultation of external sources.

  Some hyphens in words have been silently removed, some added, when a
  predominant preference was found in the original book.

  Except for those changes noted below, all misspellings in the text,
  and inconsistent or archaic usage, have been retained.

  Pg   9: “TEE PLACE OF” replaced with “THE PLACE OF”
  Pg  48: Positions of “e” and “f” labels were reversed
  Pg  91: “minature” replaced with “miniature”
  Pg 151:  Duplicate “its” removed from “by its its plain”
  Pg 163: “It we were” replaced with “If we were”
  Pg 186: “Plate A, Fig. 10” corrected to “Plate B, Fig. 10”
  Pg 189: “glacus” replaced with “glaucus”
  Pg 215: “Hylephilahy plæus” replaced with “Hylephila phyleus”




